WASHINGTON — Over the past week, President Trump posted or reposted more than 130 messages on Twitter lashing out at the results of an election he lost. He mentioned the coronavirus pandemic now reaching its darkest hours four times — and even then just to assert that he was right about the outbreak and the experts were wrong.

Moody and by accounts of his advisers sometimes depressed, the president barely shows up to work, ignoring the health and economic crises afflicting the nation and largely clearing his public schedule of meetings unrelated to his desperate bid to rewrite the election results. He has fixated on rewarding friends, purging the disloyal and punishing a growing list of perceived enemies that now includes Republican governors, his own attorney general and even Fox News.

The final days of the Trump presidency have taken on the stormy elements of a drama more common to history or literature than a modern White House. His rage and detached-from-reality refusal to concede defeat evoke images of a besieged overlord in some distant dictatorship defiantly clinging to power rather than going into exile or an erratic English monarch imposing his version of reality on his cowed court.

And while he will leave office in 46 days, the last few weeks may only foreshadow what he will be like after he departs. Mr. Trump will almost certainly try to shape the national conversation from his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida and his relentless campaign to discredit the election could undercut his successor, President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. Although many Republicans would like to move on, he appears intent on forcing them to remain in thrall to his need for vindication and vilification even after his term expires.

On Saturday night, Mr. Trump planned to take his unreality show to Georgia for his first major public appearance since the Nov. 3 election. A rally meant to support two Republican senators in the runoff next month offered a high-profile opportunity to vent his grievances and promote his false claims that he was somehow cheated of a second term by a vast conspiracy that he imagines involved Venezuela, Republican officials and his own Justice Department.

At times, Mr. Trump’s railing-against-his-fate outbursts seem like a story straight out of William Shakespeare, part tragedy, part farce, full of sound and fury. Is Mr. Trump a modern-day Julius Caesar, forsaken by even some of his closest courtiers? (Et tu, Bill Barr?) Or a King Richard III who wars with the nobility until being toppled by Henry VII? Or King Lear, railing against those who do not love and appreciate him sufficiently? How sharper than a serpent’s tooth it is to have a thankless electorate.

“This is classic Act V behavior,” said Jeffrey R. Wilson, a Shakespearean scholar at Harvard who published the book “Shakespeare and Trump” this year. “The forces are being picked off and the tyrant is holed up in his castle and he’s growing increasingly anxious and he feels insecure and he starts blustering about his legitimate sovereignty and he starts accusing the opposition of treason.”

Others hear echoes from the East, recalling autocrats in the far reaches of the former Soviet Union barricading themselves in presidential palaces while furiously spinning out enemies-of-the-people propaganda to justify holding onto power after popular uprisings.

Alina Polyakova, the president of the Center for European Policy Analysis and a Russia scholar, said Mr. Trump reminded her of President Vladimir V. Putin, who has largely withdrawn from view recently amid public discontent in the late stages of an aging regime.

“Both also seem to be living in alternate realities surrounded only by those who confirm those realities,” she said. “But whereas one brooder will weather a slow and long decline, the other is increasingly facing a rapid decline and scrambling to do what he can to save his family and loyalists — and of course himself.”

Students of the American presidency, on the other hand, could think of no recent parallel. “As we move toward Inauguration Day, I have thought almost daily of a remark attributed to Henry Adams: ‘I expected the worst, and it was worse than I expected,’” said Patricia O’Toole, a biographer of Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson as well as Adams.

Unlike any of his modern predecessors, Mr. Trump has not called his victorious opponent, much less invited him to the White House for the traditional postelection visit. Mr. Trump has indicated that he may not attend Mr. Biden’s inauguration, which would make him the first sitting president since 1869 to refuse to participate in the most important ritual of the peaceful transfer of power.

He has been enabled by Republican leaders unwilling to stand up to him, even if many privately wish he would go away sooner rather than later. After being called “profiles in cowardice” by an ally of the president, 75 Republican state legislators from Pennsylvania on Friday disavowed their own election and called on Congress to reject the state’s electors for Mr. Biden. Only 25 of 249 Republican members of Congress surveyed by The Washington Post publicly acknowledged Mr. Biden’s victory.

“He really has paid attention to the base,” said Christopher Ruddy, a friend of the president’s and chief executive of Newsmax, part of the conservative news media megaphone that has supported and amplified Mr. Trump’s allegations. “They got him elected and in his mind got him elected the second time. And they’re strongly in favor of this recount effort and they want him to continue this. In his mind, he’s not just doing this for himself he’s doing it for his supporters and for the country. He’s on a mission and he’s not going to be easily swayed.”

Mr. Trump’s Twitter feed is a fire hose of denial. “NO WAY WE LOST THIS ELECTION,” he wrote at one point in recent days. “We won Michigan by a lot!” he wrote at another of a state he lost by more than 154,000 votes. He reposted a message seeking to delegitimize Mr. Biden: “If he is inaugurated under these circumstances, he cannot be considered ‘president’ but instead referred to as the #presidentialoccupant.”

And he has turned on his own party, angry that Republican leaders have refused to accept his baseless claims and overturn the will of the voters. He referred to Gov. Brian Kemp of Georgia, once a favorite ally, as “the hapless Governor of Georgia.” and the “‘Republican’ Governor of Georgia” using his quotation marks ironically, and pressed Mr. Kemp on Saturday to convene a special session of the state legislature in a bid to overturn the results there. Gov. Doug Ducey of Arizona, another Republican stalwart, has joined the target list. Mr. Trump retweeted a post saying “Gov Ducey has betrayed the people of Arizona,” adding, “TRUE!”

In a rambling 46-minute rant transmitted from the White House to the outside world by videotape this past week, Mr. Trump denounced “corrupt forces” stealing the election and insisted it was “statistically impossible” for him to have lost. If only everyone would accept his unfounded claims, he said, then “I very easily win in all states.”

“Many people in the media — and even judges — so far have refused to accept it,” Mr. Trump said, more as accusation than concession. “They know it’s true. They know it’s there. They know who won the election, but they refuse to say you’re right. Our country needs somebody to say, ‘You’re right.’ ”

But even as the president desperately demands that somebody, anybody, tell him that he is right, no one in a position of authority has done so other than blood relatives, paid lawyers and partisan soul mates. The election has been certified and accepted not just by Democrats but also by key Republican governors, secretaries of state, election officials, city clerks, judges and even Trump administration officials.

After his own cybersecurity czar endorsed the integrity of the election, Mr. Trump fired him. Now that Attorney General William P. Barr has said he saw no fraud that would overturn the results, he may be next.

Mr. Trump’s video was so out of touch with the facts that both Facebook and Twitter appended warning notices lest viewers actually believe what the president of the United States was telling them. Which explains why the only topic other than the election to draw Mr. Trump’s interest over the last week was the annual defense bill that he vowed to veto because Congress did not strip legal protection for big technology companies as he has demanded.

The subject that seemed of no particular interest to the president was the coronavirus now ravaging the country he leads worse than ever. Rather than “rounding the corner,” as Mr. Trump insisted before the election, the pandemic this past week began killing a record high of nearly 3,000 people in the United States every day, almost the equivalent of another Sept. 11, 2001, attack every 24 hours.

Mr. Trump made no comment on that in his Twitter rants nor about the latest jobs report documenting the economic toll, taking no leadership role in the middle of America’s deadliest crisis in generations. The only four tweets he did post mentioning the virus were more about defending his own handling of it, including reposted messages asserting that “The president was RIGHT.”

As the circle around Mr. Trump shrinks and even allies like Mr. Barr distance themselves, the president resists any suggestion that he stand down. “I’m never, ever going to concede,” he told one ally who urged him to prepare to do so. And if he is not listening to advisers, many are no longer listening to him.

At one point, Mr. Trump appeared to call Mr. Ducey even as he was certifying Arizona’s results on television and the governor refused to take the president’s call, which was announced by a “Hail to the Chief” ring tone.

Top Republican lawyers have dropped off his election lawsuits, which have been dismissed by the dozens and even in one case declared “bizarre,” by a judge appointed by Mr. Trump. Five courts in five battleground states rejected his latest legal challenges to the election in a little more than three hours on Friday, with a Wisconsin judge warning that “this is a dangerous path we are being asked to tread.”

Sliding further away from the mainstream, the president has aligned himself more clearly with fringe news outlets like One America News Network and the conspiracy theorists of QAnon, who believe the world is run by a cabal of Satan-worshipping pedophiles plotting against Mr. Trump. In a meeting with Republican senators, according to an official confirming a report in The Post, Mr. Trump said QAnon followers “basically believe in good government,” a comment that left the room silent until his chief of staff, Mark Meadows, volunteered that he had never heard them described that way.

With more than six weeks until he leaves office, Mr. Trump remains as unpredictable and erratic as ever. He may fire Mr. Barr or others or issue a raft of pardons to protect himself and his allies or incite a confrontation overseas. Like King Lear, he may fly into further rages and find new targets for his wrath.

“If there are these analogies between classic literature and society as it’s operating right now, then that should give us some big cause for concern this December,” said Mr. Wilson, the Shakespearean scholar. “We’re approaching the end of the play here and that’s where catastrophe always comes.”

When the Great Depression took hold in the early 1930s, fine jewelers scrambled to make their extravagant wares seem if not utilitarian at least a bit more versatile. Who needed a ball-worthy diadem that sat in a velvet box for much of the year, or an unwieldy cocktail ring? And so along came convertible jewelry — a single piece that could be configured in multiple ways. The most famous of these was Van Cleef & Arpels’s Zip necklace, with diamond teeth that could be zipped up to become a bracelet. The Surrealist design was suggested to the jeweler by Wallis Simpson, the Duchess of Windsor, in 1938 after one of Simpson’s favorite couturiers, Elsa Schiaparelli, began to use the newfangled fastener on her designs instead of buttons. Today, the Paris-based house continues to experiment with such chameleonic creations, most recently this massive articulated collar with a detachable pendant and brooch. Adorned with more than 60 large rubies and a veritable mine of white diamonds, the two roses, which can be worn together as a clip, were fashioned by a proprietary method in which stones are set almost invisibly in a sculpturelike armature. The monumental piece, whether pinned to a lapel or draped around the neck, may not be built for practicality this time around, but it surely illustrates the beauty of always remaining adaptable.

PUERTO RICO, Spain — After braving the Atlantic on a rickety and overcrowded fishing boat for six days, a group of young Senegalese has spent the past three weeks in a three-star hotel in the Canary Islands, overlooking a spectacular beach lapped by pristine waters.

While relieved to have survived their perilous journey to the Canary Islands, which has become the most deadly crossing from Africa into Europe for migrants, the six young men also know that their hotel stay is not a fairy-tale end to their odyssey.

“After this crazy trip, I am happy to be alive, but I really have no idea how long I can stay here and where I can go next,” said Ousseynou Diop, 19, who boarded the fishing boat in the Senegalese port of Saint-Louis on Nov. 1.

About 20,000 migrants have reached the Canary Islands so far this year, despite several deadly shipwrecks off Senegal and other African countries, as well as some that occurred just as the boats were reaching the shores of the Spanish archipelago. At least 568 people have died while crossing from Africa to the Spanish islands between January and late November, according to the International Organization for Migration.

The sudden influx of migrants has caught the Spanish authorities flat-footed, even though rights activists and other experts had been warning that traffickers were likely to divert to the Canary Islands after an increase in patrols virtually shut down many Mediterranean routes into Europe, notably from Libya.

Image“After this crazy trip, I am happy to be alive, but I really have no idea how long I can stay here and where I can go next,” said Ousseynou Diop, 19, third from left.
“After this crazy trip, I am happy to be alive, but I really have no idea how long I can stay here and where I can go next,” said Ousseynou Diop, 19, third from left.Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York Times

Image
Serving lunch to teenage boys from Mali at a center for unaccompanied minors.
Serving lunch to teenage boys from Mali at a center for unaccompanied minors.Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York Times
Instead, Spain is now pressuring its partners in the European Union to establish a system to distribute migrants equitably across member countries, and asking Morocco and other African nations to take back those without a legal claim to remain, at a time when travel restrictions related to the coronavirus have greatly complicated deportations.

“We are the southern border of Europe, not of Spain,” Hana Jalloul, Spain’s migration secretary, said in a video conference call with a group of foreign correspondents late last month. Other European countries that receive fewer migrants “should take into account our situation,” she added.

The steady influx of migrants is hitting Spain as the coronavirus has stifled its economy, particularly its cornerstone, tourism. Since March, the Canary Islands have only seen a fraction of the 13 million tourists who came last year for the beaches and the mild climate, much in demand during the European winter. In October, there were 88 percent fewer foreign visitors than in the same month last year.

Since the summer, as an emergency solution, the Spanish government has moved about 6,000 migrants from tents in Arguineguín, a port on Gran Canaria, one of the main islands of the archipelago, to 17 hotels that have been shuttered by the pandemic, several of them in the beach town of Puerto Rico.

The move was initially welcomed by local hoteliers, who received about 45 euros, or $55, a day from the authorities in return for providing food and lodgings for each migrant, but tensions have built up as the flow of arrivals has shown no sign of easing.

Late last month, hundreds of residents demonstrated to demand the departure of the migrants, saying that their presence could deter European tourists as the winter season starts.

Image
Tourists crossing the dunes of Maspalomas on the Spanish island of Gran Canaria.
Tourists crossing the dunes of Maspalomas on the Spanish island of Gran Canaria.Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York Times

Image
Hundreds of residents, many of whom rely on the hard-hit tourism industry, marching to demand the removal of migrants from hotels in Puerto Rico, Canary Islands, last month.
Hundreds of residents, many of whom rely on the hard-hit tourism industry, marching to demand the removal of migrants from hotels in Puerto Rico, Canary Islands, last month.Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York Times
“We should put them on planes and send them home, because we have people living here who have invested a lot of money to fill this beautiful place with tourists, and certainly not migrants,” said one of the protesters, Teresa García Llarena, a pensioner and former employee of a car rental company.

The island’s main association of hoteliers did not back the protest, but its Dutch president, Tom Smulders, said that “this crisis situation has got as far as it could go” and he urged Spain’s government to evacuate all migrants from hotels by the end of the year.

The mayor of the municipality that includes Puerto Rico, Onalia Bueno, warned in an interview that tour operators could soon stop offering stays in Puerto Rico and other Canary Island resorts because of the “wrong image” given by the migrants. “Tourism and migration are simply not compatible,” she said.

Even though tourists now occupy only 7 percent of the hotel beds operated by members of his association, Mr. Smulders forecast that the number of holidaymakers from northern Europe would rise rapidly once airlines reopened more routes to the archipelago. The Canary Islands have maintained a low level of Covid-19 infection, he said, by following strict lockdown rules and also requiring all visitors to test for coronavirus before traveling.

“Winter is our main tourism season, and when you come as a tourist, you don’t want to be next to a building that is filled with migrants,” said Mr. Smulders.

Image
Moroccan migrants aboard a bus on the Arguineguín pier, where they were held for days after making the perilous crossing.
Moroccan migrants aboard a bus on the Arguineguín pier, where they were held for days after making the perilous crossing.Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York Times

Image
A recently opened camp on a decommissioned military base in Barranco Seco where migrants are processed by immigration authorities.
A recently opened camp on a decommissioned military base in Barranco Seco where migrants are processed by immigration authorities.Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York Times
Spain’s government is led by a Socialist prime minister, Pedro Sánchez, and the regional government of the Canary Islands is also Socialist-led. But the politicians have struggled to coordinate their response to the islands’ migration crisis. The archipelago’s politicians say the central government reacted too late and is now scrambling to rebuild infrastructure that was unnecessarily dismantled after 2006, when the islands last witnessed a mass influx, with about 36,000 arrivals that year.

Once the Mediterranean became harder to cross for migrants, “We had the capacity to do a lot more to prepare for this, but I think that somebody in Madrid thought that the Canary Islands had somehow magically changed their location on the map and migrants would never get here again,” Noemí Santana, the regional minister for social rights in the Canary Islands, said in an interview.

While adult migrants are the responsibility of the central government, Ms. Santana and her officials act as legal guardians for about 2,000 underage and unaccompanied migrants scattered across several youth centers.

Their number has quadrupled since January and, like the adults, the children are mostly Moroccans. Many first traveled from inland Morocco to the shores of the Western Sahara, a longstanding territorial conflict area where hostilities recently resumed.

Saïd, 16, and his cousin Mohamed, 17, left their town of El Kelaa des Srarhna, northeast of the tourism hub of Marrakesh, to reach Dakhla, in the Western Sahara, where they then boarded a boat bound for the Canary Islands.


Image
A graveyard of abandoned fishing boats used to transport migrants.
A graveyard of abandoned fishing boats used to transport migrants.Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York Times

Image
Mohamed, 17, left, and his cousin Saïd, 16, at a migrant center located on the grounds of an abandoned farm.
Mohamed, 17, left, and his cousin Saïd, 16, at a migrant center located on the grounds of an abandoned farm.Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York Times
Saïd said his elder brother paid traffickers about €1,000 for his trip. “The young people in Morocco can now only look forward to misery, because there is the coronavirus, so really no way to work and earn money,” said Saïd, whose full name cannot be disclosed under Spanish rules that protect underage migrants.

Saïd and his cousin are in a youth center with a makeshift prayer area, a soccer pitch and leafy surroundings, in the grounds of an abandoned farmhouse.

One of the directors of the local nongovernment association running the center, Enrique Quintana, said his job at times felt like “looking after vulnerable babies,” because “migrating to another country with a different language and culture means that you really start again from zero, whatever you might have achieved before in your life.”


Image
A memorial at the graves of 15 unidentified Malians who died at sea.
A memorial at the graves of 15 unidentified Malians who died at sea.Credit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York Times
Like all his companions from Senegal in the Puerto Rico hotel, Mr. Diop barely spent time at school and instead became a fisherman when he was 12.

However, he said he struggled to survive, with Covid-19 restrictions hurting the local fishing industry, already under pressure from Chinese trawlers operating in Senegalese waters.

Mr. Diop said he left Senegal without telling his family and now hoped to get travel documents to reach Madrid, whose most famous soccer team, Real Madrid, he loves. But underlining his lack of preparations, he sounded surprised to learn that Madrid was a landlocked capital.

“If I cannot fish in Madrid, I will do anything else that gets me money,” he said. “I don’t recommend that anybody try to get to the islands like I did by boat — it’s far too dangerous — but I also don’t want to be back in Senegal, where we sold our sea to the Chinese.”

E-commerce became a lifeline for consumers and companies during the pandemic. But this holiday season, online shopping will strain the industry as never before: An estimated three billion packages will course through the nation’s shipping infrastructure — about 800 million more than delivered last year.

This flood of packages is hitting shipping companies at the end of a year of frenzied demand for everyday household items by a public largely stuck at home and wary of doing its buying in person. The deliveries could make or break some smaller retailers already on the edge financially because of lockdowns and fewer customers in their stores.

Packages that don’t arrive by Christmas will be a disappointment for customers but a disaster for these struggling retailers, which have been forced by the coronavirus pandemic to rebuild their business around e-commerce. The future of retailing is increasingly online, and companies don’t want to give customers any reason to think they can’t deliver.

“Everyone is preparing for the worst and holding their breath,” said Ravi Shanker, a transportation analyst at Morgan Stanley. “It is far easier to lose at peak shipping than to win.”

To cope with the surge, the large shipping companies have expanded weekend deliveries and hired more workers. They have also played hardball with retailers, introducing steep holiday surcharges on shipments and enforcing strict limits on how many packages companies can send out each day.

FedEx and UPS, the biggest private carriers in the United States, have enormous leverage over how many packages will be delivered and when, and some retailers worry about pushing back against their demands for fear of being cut off.

But the carriers are also under pressure, largely from Amazon, which has been building out its own logistics business and is becoming increasingly independent in shipping. If more retailers falter this holiday, that only strengthens Amazon’s dominance.

By one accounting, 7.2 million more packages need to be shipped each day this holiday season than the system has the capacity to handle.

That figure came from ShipMatrix, which provides technology to the shipping industry. Its president, Satish Jindel, said expanded weekend deliveries were covering part of that shortfall, “but not all of it.”

“Demand exceeds capacity, no matter what part of the country you are in,” he said.

Many brands, both large and small, have yanked forward order deadlines for customers who want to receive items by Christmas and posted reminders on their websites to order early.

Beatrice Bakery in Beatrice, Neb., which expects to sell 750,000 pounds of fruitcake this holiday, set a cutoff of Dec. 9 — nearly a week earlier than last year — while the Disney Store is advertising a Dec. 10 deadline.


Image
Beatrice Bakery in Nebraska moved its deadline for Christmas orders up a week this year.
Beatrice Bakery in Nebraska moved its deadline for Christmas orders up a week this year.Credit...Walker Pickering for The New York Times
Typically, shipping volumes during the holidays are 30 to 40 percent higher than at other times of the year. But those levels were being reached this year long before people started buying Christmas gifts. Even Amazon struggled to keep up with the demand in the early days of the pandemic.

The shipping companies say they are better prepared for the holidays. FedEx said it was hiring 70,000 seasonal employees, and UPS said it would hire 100,000. That expansion pales next to the preparation at Amazon, which said it was building 100 new fulfillment warehouses, sorting centers and delivery facilities across North America. The company has hired 275,000 full-time and part-time workers since the start of the year and 100,000 seasonal workers to handle the increased volume.

Major shipping companies are also preparing to distribute coronavirus vaccines, though most of those shipments are not likely to start until next year.

Some retailers are already reporting delays.

Executives at Kendra Scott, the contemporary jewelry brand, said they had discussed rising sales during the holidays with UPS, but were told this week that deliveries would be delayed because of capacity issues. On Wednesday, an alert about the delays was at the top of the Kendra Scott website.

“I don’t know how it could be as unexpected as it appears to have been,” said Tom Nolan, the brand’s president. “We are not getting what we were told we would get when we embarked on our holiday season.”

Mr. Nolan said the delays were particularly frustrating because customers tended to blame the brands, rather than the shipping companies. “We’re paying a fee to a shipping provider to hold them to the expectations we have,” he said.

Kendra Scott employees scrambled, including moving goods to some of its 100-plus stores and warehouses that were closer to certain customers. But Mr. Nolan was uncertain about how the rest of the month would look.

“We’re trying to work that out now and anticipate, coming closer to the holidays, is this going to get better or going to get worse?” he said. “This is not a free service that we’re talking about. We pay a premium to get this done effectively, and the expectation is that it’s done effectively.”

One retailer that sells apparel and accessories has already been grappling with UPS’s capacity restrictions and surcharges, which can add several dollars to a package and increase its overall cost by 25 to 40 percent, according to two company executives, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing fear of retaliation from UPS.

The parcel limits were based on holiday volumes from last year, even though many more people are shopping online this year. Once a day’s quota is reached, remaining parcels must be pushed to the next day, the executives said, a move that can then snowball into other days.

Over all, delays have been relatively minimal so far, analysts say. A UPS representative said the carrier was “delivering previously agreed upon, collaboratively planned package volume, but there are limits on unplanned volume until we have capacity in our network that we can steer it toward.”

Still, many retailers are urging customers to pick up orders in stores or curbside.

Several major chains have begun partnerships outside the orbit of major carriers, offering same- or next-day delivery. Sephora and Best Buy have deals with Instacart, while Bed Bath & Beyond teamed up with Shipt. But they are costly alternatives and capture a small slice of business.

Helena Price Hambrecht, a co-founder of Haus, an aperitif brand in Sonoma County, Calif., said she had been told that starting on Wednesday, the local FedEx truck would limit order pickups from her company to 500 per day through December. The company will use its own vehicles to drop off its remaining orders at FedEx hubs in the area.

“People don’t realize the dance going on behind the scenes, and this year it all really came to the surface because the more layers of supply chain you rely on, the more things can break,” Ms. Hambrecht said. “A lot of it is expectation-setting, but a lot of it is happening at the last minute because people are having last-minute situations come up. It really is the Wild West right now.”

When asked about Haus, FedEx said, “We work closely with our customers to understand their volume and identify opportunities to ensure the best possible service throughout the season.”


Image
FedEx said it was hiring 70,000 seasonal employees.
FedEx said it was hiring 70,000 seasonal employees.Credit...Robert F. Bukaty/Associated Press
The shipping calculus for the smallest retailers leaves little margin for error. Doug Haney, who owns Bike Adirondacks, a cycling business in Saranac Lake, N.Y., ships his products though the U.S. Postal Service. This year, the shipping rates for smaller items like T-shirts and hoodies have gone up, and Mr. Haney is absorbing some of the costs.

“A $5 price point for shipping for a small order is what people want to spend,” he said. “Otherwise, it becomes unappealing.”

Shipping companies are walking a tightrope, too. In some past years, they were criticized for not having enough employees to handle the packages, leading to delays. But in other years, investors criticized them for hiring too many drivers and sorters, lowering profits.

“You have to match the resources with the volume,” said Mr. Shanker, the Morgan Stanley analyst. “It is easy to get that wrong.”

Consumers have been following unpredictable shopping patterns this year. Working from home, many started online holiday shopping earlier and during work hours. There were fewer online sales on Cyber Monday, after the Thanksgiving weekend, than analysts had predicted, leading some to believe that the shopping season is being spread out over many months and that a shipping crunch can be avoided.

“Some of this increased anxiety about shipping delays is real, and some of it might be manufactured,” said Dave Gill, vice president of Insights and Analytics for Rakuten Intelligence.


Image
Fruitcakes awaiting pickup at Beatrice Bakery.
Fruitcakes awaiting pickup at Beatrice Bakery.Credit...Walker Pickering for The New York Times
Richard Meyer, president of Beatrice Bakery, whose signature offering is Grandma’s Fruitcakes, said he thought shipping companies were placing the onus on the merchants to manage expectations. Last week, he received an email from a big carrier advising how to talk to customers about shipping issues.

“We are the ones that have to do the explaining,” Mr. Meyer said.

Privacy concerns in Europe have led to some of the world’s toughest restrictions on companies like Facebook and Google and the ways they monitor people online.

The crackdown has been widely popular, but the regulatory push is now entangled in the global fight against child exploitation, setting off a fierce debate about how far internet companies should be allowed to go when collecting evidence on their platforms of possible crimes against minors.

A rule scheduled to take effect on Dec. 20 would inhibit the monitoring of email, messaging apps and other digital services in the European Union. It would also restrict the use of software that scans for child sexual abuse imagery and so-called grooming by online predators. The practice would be banned without a court order.

European officials have spent the past several weeks trying to negotiate a deal allowing the detection to continue. But some privacy groups and lawmakers argue that while the criminal activity is abhorrent, scanning for it in personal communications risks violating the privacy rights of Europeans.


“Every time things like these unbelievable crimes are happening, or there is a terrorist attack, it’s very easy to say we have to be strong and we have to restrict rights,” said Birgit Sippel, a German member of the European Parliament. “We have to be very careful.”


Image
Birgit Sippel, a German member of the European Parliament, is seeking a compromise that would allow much of the scanning to continue.
Birgit Sippel, a German member of the European Parliament, is seeking a compromise that would allow much of the scanning to continue.Credit...Gergely Kelemen Zoltan/MTI via AP
Of the more than 52 million photos, videos and other materials related to online child sexual abuse reported between January and September this year, over 2.3 million came from the European Union, according to the U.S. federal clearinghouse for the imagery.

Under the new rule, part of Europe’s ePrivacy Directive, the rate of reports would drop precipitously, because automated scanning is responsible for nearly all of them. Photo- and video-scanning software uses algorithms to compare users’ content with previously identified abuse imagery. Other software targeted at grooming searches for key words and phrases known to be used by predators.

Facebook, the most prolific reporter of child sexual abuse imagery worldwide, said it would stop proactive scanning entirely in the E.U. if the regulation took effect. In an email, Antigone Davis, Facebook’s global head of safety, said the company was “concerned that the new rules as written today would limit our ability to prevent, detect and respond to harm,” but said it was “committed to complying with the updated privacy laws.”


There are also concerns among child protection groups that there could be a domino effect — that Facebook and other companies may cease scanning worldwide, because they do not currently have a legal obligation to do so.

“The issue that we’re talking about is global,” said Julie Cordua, the chief executive of Thorn, a nonprofit that develops and licenses technologies to defend children from online abuse. “What happens in the E.U. will have cascading effects around the world.”

Child protection organizations, international law enforcement agencies and U.S. lawmakers have warned that the rule would be a major setback for global efforts to combat the exploitation of children.

“It would be a total failure if during the pandemic and the lockdowns going on in many countries that we should now forbid the detection of grooming,” said Ylva Johansson, a Swedish member of the European Commission with responsibilities for security strategy and terrorism.

Ms. Johansson and other officials are pushing to find a compromise that would allow the scanning to continue for several years, but under a deadline imposed by previous privacy legislation, they would need to settle on a solution by Dec. 20.

“There is this balance between the privacy of the user and the privacy of the child victim,” she said. “The role for politicians is to find the right balance.”

The New York Times reported in 2019 that online child sexual abuse imagery had grown exponentially in recent years and was rampant across the internet, infesting nearly all major platforms. Perpetrators often leverage multiple services, including cloud storage, messaging apps and social media networks. Online video games are another frequent target, with some abusers grooming hundreds and even thousands of victims while they play.


The new restrictions in Europe can be traced to a policy change in 2018 that brought email, some direct messaging and internet services like Facebook, Gmail and Skype under regulations that would prevent companies from monitoring electronic communications. The rule was scheduled to take effect this month to give companies and governments time to prepare.

With the deadline looming, European officials are facing criticism for waiting until the last minute to resolve an issue with broad implications for privacy and child safety.

Whether a compromise can be reached may depend on the debate over grooming-detection software. Last month, Ms. Sippel proposed a competing rule that would allow scanning for photos and videos but ban the grooming software, although it was unclear if she had enough support in Parliament for that position. A committee is scheduled to consider the proposal on Monday.

Unlike imagery-scanning technology, which is almost 100 percent accurate in identifying illegal photos and videos, grooming software is right about 90 percent of the time, according to Hany Farid, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who assisted on the development of both technologies. That means about a tenth of the material flagged by the grooming software is not illicit.


Image
Hany Farid, who has worked to develop technologies that detect online abuse, in his office at the University of California, Berkeley. 
Hany Farid, who has worked to develop technologies that detect online abuse, in his office at the University of California, Berkeley. Credit...Kholood Eid for The New York Times
Dr. Farid compared grooming software used by companies in the United States and Europe to spam-filtering software, which searches for combinations of words and phrases. Technologies that scan for spam and malware would be exempted from the new regulation.

“I don’t hear anybody complaining that my spam filter reads my email,” Dr. Farid said.

When grooming is discovered, there is a major upside compared with the detection of illegal photos and videos: A grooming report is more likely to result in the rescue of a child because the illegal activity is happening in real time.

“The grooming of children for sexual purposes is always about a child on the verge of or in the midst of abuse,” said John Shehan, a vice president at the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, the U.S. federal clearinghouse that works with technology companies and law enforcement agencies around the world.

As of September, according to the clearinghouse, 1,020 reports of grooming had come from the European Union. Cases of grooming were reported in all 27 E.U. countries and contained many examples of “sextortion” — when an adult poses as a minor to solicit photos or videos, then uses the imagery as blackmail to further exploit the child.

Diego Naranjo, head of policy at European Digital Rights in Brussels, an advocacy group, said the subject was fraught because anyone who questioned the tech companies’ practices was cast as “somebody who doesn’t care about the children.”

Even so, he said, the tech companies and child protection groups had not made a strong enough case for scanning to justify the intrusion on privacy.

“They haven’t given evidence needed to show this is proportionate,” he said. “We don’t open every letter in the mail to see if there is something illegal.”

The European Data Protection Supervisor, an agency that advises on privacy issues, said clearer safeguards were needed for consumers. Privacy is considered a legally protected human right in the European Union. In an opinion published last month, the agency said “confidentiality of communications is a cornerstone of the fundamental rights to respect for private and family life.”

The tech industry has largely stayed out of the public debate.

While Facebook said it would stop proactive scanning in Europe, other companies have remained quiet. In October, Microsoft filed a declaration with authorities saying that its detection software was used solely to identify child abuse and not for any commercial purpose. But a company spokesman would not indicate if it would stop scanning under the new regulations.


Google, which reported 3.6 million illegal photos and videos in 2019, did not respond to multiple requests for comment.

Advocacy groups and law enforcement agencies around the world have drawn attention to the rule in recent weeks in hopes of derailing it.

In a statement last month, the European Union Cybercrime Task Force described scanning by companies as an “essential function in the fight against child sexual exploitation and child sexual abuse online,” and warned that stopping it could result in a significant reduction in criminal investigations.

On Thursday, Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, announced that he would introduce a resolution urging the E.U. to let companies continue monitoring. “Closing our eyes to child exploitation doesn’t mean it stops,” Mr. Cotton said.

Twelve members of the U.S. House of Representatives, both Democrats and Republicans, made a similar case in a letter last month to the European Parliament.

Ms. Sippel said she was hopeful a compromise could be found. In the meantime, she predicted, the broader debate about how to balance privacy and security will continue.

“You can always go too far, or you cannot go far enough,” she said. “That is what we are debating.”

The ibis and the kiwi are dogged diggers, probing in sand and soil for worms and other buried prey. Sandpipers, too, can be seen along the shore excavating small creatures with their beaks. It was long thought that these birds were using trial and error to find their prey.

But then scientists discovered something far more peculiar: Their beaks are threaded with cells that can detect vibrations traveling through the ground. Some birds can feel the movements of their distant quarry directly, while others pick up on waves bouncing off buried shells — echolocating like a dolphin or a bat, in essence, through the earth.

There’s one more odd detail in this story of birds’ unusual senses: Ostriches and emus, birds that most definitely do not hunt this way, have beaks with a similar interior structure. They are honeycombed with pits for these cells, though the cells themselves are missing. Now, scientists in a study published Wednesday in Proceedings of the Royal Society B report that prehistoric bird ancestors dating nearly as far back as the dinosaurs most likely were capable of sensing vibrations with their beaks.


The birds that use this remote sensing today are not closely related to one another, said Carla du Toit, a graduate student at the University of Cape Town in South Africa and an author of the paper. That made her and her co-authors curious about when exactly this ability evolved, and whether ostriches, which are close relatives of kiwis, had an ancestor that used this sensory ability.


Image
A modern species of remote-touch probing bird, a hadeda ibis, in South Africa.
A modern species of remote-touch probing bird, a hadeda ibis, in South Africa.
Credit...Peter Ryan
“We had a look to see if we could find fossils of early birds from that group,” Ms. du Toit said. “And we’re very lucky.” There are very well-preserved fossils of birds called lithornithids dating from just after the event that drove nonavian dinosaurs to extinction.

First they had to gather data on the beaks of more than 50 bird species so that they would be able to say how similar or different the fossil birds were to modern birds. The team recorded the number of pits in the bone of the beak and the size of the beak and the head, important details because birds that dig for their food have a characteristic shape.

Then they took a look at the lithornithids. And indeed, the ancient beaks and head structure were extremely similar to the beaks of kiwis, ibises and sandpipers, far closer than any other bird in the study.

“It seems that they have this organ and were able to use the sense of remote touch to probe and locate prey as well, which is really cool, because it just shows that this is really old,” Ms. du Toit said.

That means that the ancestors of ostriches and emus lost the ability sometime after the lithornithids lived, leaving them with only traces in their bone structure of this lost talent. They lack as well the enlarged brain regions that kiwis, ibises and shorebirds devote to processing the sensory information pouring in from the beak.

Ms. du Toit and her colleagues are now studying the hadeda ibis, a South African bird that uses remote sensing, to see just how far away it can sense hidden objects — perhaps buried as much as eight inches below the surface.

Lately, in the ongoing conversation about how to defeat the coronavirus, experts have made reference to the “Swiss cheese model” of pandemic defense.

The metaphor is easy enough to grasp: Multiple layers of protection, imagined as cheese slices, block the spread of the new coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. No one layer is perfect; each has holes, and when the holes align, the risk of infection increases. But several layers combined — social distancing, plus masks, plus hand-washing, plus testing and tracing, plus ventilation, plus government messaging — significantly reduce the overall risk. Vaccination will add one more protective layer.

“Pretty soon you’ve created an impenetrable barrier, and you really can quench the transmission of the virus,” said Dr. Julie Gerberding, executive vice president and chief patient officer at Merck, who recently referenced the Swiss cheese model when speaking at a virtual gala fund-raiser for MoMath, the National Museum of Mathematics in Manhattan.

“But it requires all of those things, not just one of those things,” she added. “I think that’s what our population is having trouble getting their head around. We want to believe that there is going to come this magic day when suddenly 300 million doses of vaccine will be available and we can go back to work and things will return to normal. That is absolutely not going to happen fast.”


Rather, Dr. Gerberding said in a follow-up email, expect to see “a gradual improvement in protection, first among the highest need groups, and then more gradually among the rest of us.” Until vaccines are widely available and taken, she said, “we will need to continue masks and other common-sense measures to protect ourselves and others.”

In October, Bill Hanage, an epidemiologist at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, retweeted an infographic rendering of the Swiss cheese model, noting that it included “things that are personal *and* collective responsibility — note the ‘misinformation mouse’ busy eating new holes for the virus to pass through.”

“One of the first principles of pandemic response is, or ought to be, clear and consistent messaging from trusted sources,” Dr. Hanage said in an email. “Unfortunately the independence of established authorities like the C.D.C. has been called into question, and trust needs to be rebuilt as a matter of urgency.” A catchy infographic is a powerful message, he said, but ultimately requires higher-level support.

The Swiss cheese concept originated with James T. Reason, a cognitive psychologist, now a professor emeritus at the University of Manchester, England, in his 1990 book, “Human Error.” A succession of disasters — including the Challenger shuttle explosion, Bhopal and Chernobyl — motivated the concept, and it became known as the “Swiss cheese model of accidents,” with the holes in the cheese slices representing errors that accumulate and lead to adverse events.

The model has been widely used by safety analysts in various industries, including medicine and aviation, for many years. (Dr. Reason did not devise the “Swiss cheese” label; that is attributed to Rob Lee, an Australian air-safety expert, in the 1990s.) The model became famous, but it was not accepted uncritically; Dr. Reason himself noted that it had limitations and was intended as a generic tool or guide. In 2004, at a workshop addressing an aviation accident two years earlier near Überlingen, Germany, he delivered a talk with the title, “Überlingen: Is Swiss cheese past its sell-by date?”


In 2006, a review of the model, published by the Eurocontrol Experimental Center, recounted that Dr. Reason, while writing the book chapter “Latent errors and system disasters,” in which an early version of the model appears, was guided by two notions: “the biological or medical metaphor of pathogens, and the central role played by defenses, barriers, controls and safeguards (analogous to the body’s autoimmune system).”

The cheese metaphor now pairs fairly well with the coronavirus pandemic. Ian M. Mackay, a virologist at the University of Queensland, in Brisbane, Australia, saw a smaller version on Twitter, but thought that it could do with more slices, more information. He created, with collaborators, the “Swiss Cheese Respiratory Pandemic Defense” and engaged his Twitter community, asking for feedback and putting the visualization through many iterations. “Community engagement is very high!” he said. Now circulating widely, the infographic has been translated into more than two dozen languages.

Image
Dr. Mackay, a creator of the &ldquo;Swiss Cheese Respiratory Pandemic Defense.&rdquo;
Dr. Mackay, a creator of the “Swiss Cheese Respiratory Pandemic Defense.”Credit...Faye Sakura for The New York Times
“This multilayered approach to reducing risk is used in many industries, especially those where failure could be catastrophic,” Dr. Mackay said, via email. “Death is catastrophic to families, and for loved ones, so I thought Professor Reason’s approach fit in very well during the circulation of a brand-new, occasionally hidden, sometimes severe and occasionally deadly respiratory virus.”

The following is an edited version of a recent email conversation with Dr. Mackay.

Q. What does the Swiss cheese model show?
A. The real power of this infographic — and James Reason’s approach to account for human fallibility — is that it’s not really about any single layer of protection or the order of them, but about the additive success of using multiple layers, or cheese slices. Each slice has holes or failings, and those holes can change in number and size and location, depending on how we behave in response to each intervention.

Take masks as one example of a layer. Any mask will reduce the risk that you will unknowingly infect those around you, or that you will inhale enough virus to become infected. But it will be less effective at protecting you and others if it doesn’t fit well, if you wear it below your nose, if it’s only a single piece of cloth, if the cloth is a loose weave, if it has an unfiltered valve, if you don’t dispose of it properly, if you don’t wash it, or if you don’t sanitize your hands after you touch it. Each of these are examples of a hole. And that’s in just one layer.

To be as safe as possible, and to keep those around you safe, it’s important to use more slices to prevent those volatile holes from aligning and letting virus through.


Q. What have we learned since March?
A. Distance is the most effective intervention; the virus doesn’t have legs, so if you are physically distant from people, you avoid direct contact and droplets. Then you have to consider inside spaces, which are especially in play during winter or in hotter countries during summer: the bus, the gym, the office, the bar or the restaurant. That’s because we know SARS-CoV-2 can remain infectious in aerosols (small floaty droplets) and we know that aerosol spread explains Covid-19 superspreading events. Try not to be in those spaces with others, but if you have to be, minimize your time there (work from home if you can) and wear a mask. Don’t go grocery shopping as often. Hold off on going out, parties, gatherings. You can do these things later.

The Road to a Coronavirus Vaccine
Words to Know About Vaccines
Confused by the all technical terms used to describe how vaccines work and are investigated? Let us help:

Adverse event: A health problem that crops up in volunteers in a clinical trial of a vaccine or a drug. An adverse event isn’t always caused by the treatment tested in the trial.
Antibody: A protein produced by the immune system that can attach to a pathogen such as the coronavirus and stop it from infecting cells.
Approval, licensure and emergency use authorization: Drugs, vaccines and medical devices cannot be sold in the United States without gaining approval from the Food and Drug Administration, also known as licensure. After a company submits the results of  clinical trials to the F.D.A. for consideration, the agency decides whether the product is safe and effective, a process that generally takes many months. If the country is facing an emergency — like a pandemic — a company may apply instead for an emergency use authorization, which can be granted considerably faster.
Background rate: How often a health problem, known as an adverse event, arises in the general population. To determine if a vaccine or a drug is safe, researchers compare the rate of adverse events in a trial to the background rate.
Efficacy: The benefit that a vaccine provides compared to a placebo, as measured in a clinical trial. To test a coronavirus vaccine, for instance, researchers compare how many people in the vaccinated and placebo groups get Covid-19. Effectiveness, by contrast, is the benefit that a vaccine or a drug provides out in the real world. A vaccine's effectiveness may turn out to be lower or higher than its efficacy.
Phase 1, 2, and 3 trials: Clinical trials typically take place in three stages. Phase 1 trials usually involve a few dozen people and are designed to observe whether a vaccine or drug is safe. Phase 2 trials, involving hundreds of people, allow researchers to try out different doses and gather more measurements about the vaccine’s effects on the immune system. Phase 3 trials, involving thousands or tens of thousands of volunteers, determine the safety and efficacy of the vaccine or drug by waiting to see how many people are protected from the disease it’s designed to fight.
Placebo: A substance that has no therapeutic effect, often used in a clinical trial. To see if a vaccine can prevent Covid-19, for example, researchers may inject the vaccine into half of their volunteers, while the other half get a placebo of salt water. They can then compare how many people in each group get infected.
Post-market surveillance: The monitoring that takes place after a vaccine or drug has been approved and is regularly prescribed by doctors. This surveillance typically confirms that the treatment is safe. On rare occasions, it detects side effects in certain groups of people that were missed during clinical trials.
Preclinical research: Studies that take place before the start of a clinical trial, typically involving experiments where a treatment is tested on cells or in animals.
Viral vector vaccines: A type of vaccine that uses a harmless virus to chauffeur immune-system-stimulating ingredients into the human body. Viral vectors are used in several experimental Covid-19 vaccines, including those developed by AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson. Both of these companies are using a common cold virus called an adenovirus as their vector. The adenovirus carries coronavirus genes.
Trial protocol: A series of procedures to be carried out during a clinical trial.

We don’t talk about eye coverings much, but we should, because we don’t know enough about the role of eyes in transmission. We do know that eyes are a window to the upper respiratory tract.

Q. Where does the “misinformation mouse” fit in?
A. The misinformation mouse can erode any of those layers. People who are uncertain about an intervention may be swayed by a loud and confident-sounding voice proclaiming that a particular layer is ineffective. Usually, that voice is not an expert on the subject at all. When you look to the experts — usually to your local public health authorities or the World Health Organization — you’ll find reliable information.

An effect doesn’t have to be perfect to reduce your risk and the risk to those around you. We need to remember that we’re all part of a society, and if we each do our part, we can keep each other safer, which pays off for us as well.

Another example: We look both ways for oncoming traffic before crossing a road. This reduces our risk of being hit by a car but doesn’t reduce it to zero. A speeding car could still come out of nowhere. But if we also cross with the lights, and keep looking as we walk, and don’t stare at our phone, we drastically reduce our risk of being hit.

We’re already used to doing that. When we listen to the loud nonexperts who have no experience in protecting our health and safety, we are inviting them to have an impact in our lives. That’s not a risk we should take. We just need to get used to these new risk-reduction steps for today’s new risk — a respiratory virus pandemic, instead of a car.

Q. What is our individual responsibility?
A. We each need to do our part: stay apart from others, wear a mask when we can’t, think about our surroundings, for example. But we can also expect our leadership to be working to create the circumstances for us to be safe — like regulations about the air exchange inside public spaces, creating quarantine and isolation premises, communicating specifically with us (not just at us), limiting border travel, pushing us to keep getting our health checks, and providing mental health or financial support for those who suffer or can’t get paid while in a lockdown.

Q. How can we make the model stick?
A. We each use these approaches in everyday life. But for the pandemic, this all feels new and like a lot of extra work. Because everything is new. In the end, though, we’re just forming new habits. Like navigating our latest phone’s operating system or learning how to play that new console game I got for my birthday. It might take some time to get across it all, but it’s worthwhile. In working together to reduce the risk of infection, we can save lives and improve health.

And as a bonus, the multilayered risk reduction approach can even decrease the number of times we get the flu or a bad chest cold. Also, sometimes slices sit under a mandate — it’s important we also abide by those rules and do what the experts think we should. They’re looking out for our health.

Some of the very best dishes are those that take a long time — time you never used to have. These comforting but festive holiday recipes don’t require much prep time or hands-on attention, but they do need you to be around the house. You just have to wait while the dishes fill your home with the aromas you want this time of year.

Case in point: Braised brisket takes only 30 minutes to be ready for the oven, but its spiced, meaty scent will waft through the kitchen for the next four hours or so. And it needs that time. If not cooked long enough, brisket’s leaner and more readily available first cut, or flat cut, can be tough and dry. The meat seems to tighten as it cooks until all of a sudden it relaxes into tenderness, like a rubber band that finally snaps. After the meat is sliced, it gets heated in the sauce to further tenderize it and ensure it’s moist.

For a sweeter note, slow-cook clementines in syrup. The French tradition of cooking whole fruit in sugar over days produces glasslike orbs that are lovely to look at but are more of a conversation piece. This clementine confit is a decidedly edible version that captures the spirit of the method, with less sugar and time, but just as much beauty and a lot more ease.


Image
Cooking clementines in syrup without their bitter pith and peel speeds up the confit process.
Cooking clementines in syrup without their bitter pith and peel speeds up the confit process.Credit...Johnny Miller for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Susan Spungen.

Image
The sweetness of this flourless chocolate cake is balanced by ginger in the batter and tangy crème fraîche.
The sweetness of this flourless chocolate cake is balanced by ginger in the batter and tangy crème fraîche.Credit...Johnny Miller for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Susan Spungen.
Segments of the fruit go into simple syrup, then into the oven for two to three hours. This process is more about transformation than preservation. During this time, they morph into something more complex, chewy, concentrated and kind of fancy. They’re perfect for topping a simple ginger chocolate cake that’s everything a chocolate cake should be: easy, gorgeous and just rich enough. It may remain in your repertoire forever.

The same can be said of this sheet-pan French toast. Invest 10 minutes in thickly slicing bread and whisking together eggs, flavorings and milk, then combine them to soak overnight in the fridge. The next morning, the slabs of bread emerge from the oven custardy on the inside with a crisp caramel shell.

Image
Berries warmed in maple syrup are the ideal topping for these extra thick slices of caramelized French toast.
Berries warmed in maple syrup are the ideal topping for these extra thick slices of caramelized French toast.Credit...Johnny Miller for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Susan Spungen.
While tending to French toast on the stovetop is fine, it requires constant attention and can be a bit messy. The even heat of the oven and a sheet pan do a better, more foolproof job at caramelizing the bread to the burnish you’re after. It’s also relatively hands-off, except for two easy turns with tongs. Scaled up for a bigger batch, this recipe saves you from being stuck behind a stove, short-order cooking.

All of these dishes do. That they can sit for at least a day after being prepped, and before serving, adds to their leisurely vibe and may just make you want to always stay home.

The long lists of shows displayed on streaming sites, which seem to grow exponentially by the day, serve to tell you what’s on. But in New York City, they also might reveal a bit about the future of your block.

Many of the studios that produced the television series, which have turned New York into a small-screen production hub, are now planning to open new facilities or expand what’s already here, some in parts of the city that have been unfamiliar with such large-scale investment.

Fueled by a pandemic-era demand for stay-at-home entertainment, and generous tax breaks, the studios are targeting a range of locations in Queens and Brooklyn, including historic red brick enclaves, working-class sections of the waterfront, and industrial precincts known not for celebrities, but concrete plants.

These areas may not look the same for long. Previous developments of soundstages, as these facilities are known because they are designed to be soundproof, have had transformative effects. The creation of Silvercup Studios in a former bread factory in Long Island City in the 1980s, for example, helped turn that part of Queens into a trendy destination.

ADVERTISEMENT

Continue reading the main story

Some residents seem ready for their neighborhood’s star turn.

“It’s exciting,” said Vanessa Pacini, a 17-year resident of East Williamsburg, Brooklyn, a gritty industrial stretch where Netflix is planning a new home.

“People don’t really walk in this area. I would like to see more foot traffic,” said Ms. Pacini, who co-owns a local restaurant called Ange Noir Cafe. “But they have to keep the vibe.”

Low-slung, windowless and nondescript, many soundstages seem happy to strike a low-key profile. Indeed, Broadway Stages, which has several addresses in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, doesn’t offer much in the way of signage. On a recent afternoon, a notice taped to a wall at one location about the show “Billions” was one of the only indications of what transpires there.


Image
One of the two soundstages that opened this year at Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens.
One of the two soundstages that opened this year at Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens.Credit...Tom Sibley for The New York Times
But other soundstages are more overt about their role as place-maker, like the century-old Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens, which was run for more than three decades, starting in the early 1980s, by George S. Kaufman, a member of a prominent real-estate family.

Originally owned by Paramount, which produced feature films including two starring the Marx Brothers in 1929 and 1930, the company sold the property in 1942 to the U.S. Army, which used it for decades to create propaganda and training films. Jack Lemmon was a star. Years later, at the same address, Lemmon would shoot “Glengarry Glen Ross.”

After renovating the soundstages, whose main building, a column-fronted landmark on 35th Avenue, dates to 1921, Mr. Kaufman took steps to revitalize the surrounding community, which today has schools, restaurants and apartments that would not have otherwise existed, said Hal G. Rosenbluth, the studio’s chief executive.

Series filmed at Kaufman Astoria, which has what is believed to be the only private outdoor stage, or backlot, on the East Coast, include “Sesame Street,” “Flight Attendant” (HBO Max) and “Dickinson” (Apple TV+).

“George would always say, ‘Once you invest in the community, you help yourself by helping others.’ It sounds like a p.r. kind of thing, but it really is a true statement,” Mr. Rosenbluth said.


Image
Shows often make use of the blocks near soundstages for shoots, as was the case here on 34th Avenue by Kaufman Astoria Studios.
Shows often make use of the blocks near soundstages for shoots, as was the case here on 34th Avenue by Kaufman Astoria Studios.Credit...Tom Sibley for The New York Times
More recently, in 2016, Kaufman Astoria, with Procida Companies, codeveloped the Marx, a 33-unit condo on 35th Street, where a two-bedroom unit with two baths was for sale last month for $995,000.

But the studio is also trying to meet the fresh demand for streaming video. This year, it cut the ribbon on two new soundstages, built on a former parking lot. Above them sit three floors of offices, which are open to nonfilm tenants. About 15,000 of the 65,000 square feet have leased so far.

Its next project, for which Kaufman Astoria has partnered with Silverstein Properties, is more ambitious. They hope to redevelop a five-block stretch south of 35th Avenue into Innovation QNS, a mixed-use district with parks, shops and 2,700 apartments. But the city would first need to rezone the area to allow for taller buildings, which could meet resistance.

Still, some who have peeked at the plans seem enthused. “It would be mind-blowing,” said Greg Kyroglou, 44, a resident of Astoria who grew up in the neighborhood and remembers when the area around Kaufman Astoria was bleak. “The studio has been a great asset,” said Mr. Kyroglou, now a real estate agent with the firm Modern Spaces.

While Kaufman Astoria may sit in an established neighborhood, most soundstages exist on the fringes, on streets that don’t see crowds, meaning the sites can feel like they’re backstage from the city itself.


Two new facilities are planned for just such a stretch, along 19th Avenue in Ditmars Steinway, Queens, which offers scrap metal yards, roofing-contractor shops and the entrance to Rikers Island. The first, an 11-stage version from a group that includes Robert De Niro, the actor, director and entrepreneur, will rise on a windswept parcel between the Steinway and Sons piano factory and a skinny creek. Developers, who paid $72 million for the site last winter, hope to break ground in a few months.

The other facility will rise inside a factory once occupied by an Asian food wholesaler known for its egg rolls. The studio, at 45th Street, will be operated by Broadway Stages, which bought it for $8.4 million in 2015 and plans to enlarge the property and add higher ceilings, city records show.


Image
To keep paparazzi at bay, soundstages often have little in the way of signage. But evidence about what goes on there does turn up.
To keep paparazzi at bay, soundstages often have little in the way of signage. But evidence about what goes on there does turn up.Credit...Tom Sibley for The New York Times
Broadway Stages, which began life in 1983 making MTV videos for musicians like Billy Idol, today offers 60 soundstages at 30 addresses, mostly in Brooklyn and Queens. But on Staten Island, it owns the former Arthur Kill Correctional Facility, a 67-acre former prison whose razor-wire-ringed yards have played host to “Orange Is the New Black,” “The Blacklist” and “Bull.”

ADVERTISEMENT

Continue reading the main story

The Industrial Age is also giving way to the Information Age in the area where East Williamsburg borders Bushwick, at Netflix’s site, which is where a printing plant once stood by railroad tracks on Johnson Avenue. Netflix, one of the top creators of original programming, which includes “Orange Is the New Black,” “Stranger Things” and “Emily in Paris,” intends to have six soundstages there.

Netflix plans to rent these new soundstages from Steel Equities, a Long Island developer, which bought the elongated site in January 2019 for $53 million, according to city records. Last month, Steel also purchased another site, at Johnson and Bogart Street, for $20 million, records show, prompting speculation about further expansion.

“As long as they don’t build tall towers and tear down all the old buildings, it will be fine,” Ms. Pacini said. “We don’t want to look like Williamsburg.”

But light technicians, grips and actors won’t be the first to gentrify the area, where cement mixers continue to queue at concrete plants. Besides frequenting Ms. Pacini’s cafe, young stylish types already hang at restaurants like Rebel Cafe and Garden, which serves “disco fries” and grilled cheese ($15) in a plant-lined yard.


Image
Steiner Studios is planning a new eight-soundstage offering &mdash; &ldquo;Steiner Sequel&rdquo; &mdash; at this waterfront site in Sunset Park, Brooklyn.
Steiner Studios is planning a new eight-soundstage offering — “Steiner Sequel” — at this waterfront site in Sunset Park, Brooklyn.Credit...Tom Sibley for The New York Times
In Sunset Park, a large parking lot — complete with a Hollywood-style backlot archway — will be a selling point of a new eight-stage studio incorporating two existing brick warehouses that is planned by Steiner Studios, whose other complex, a 30-stage version at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, arrived in 2004.

At soundstages, most of the action takes place indoors. But directors occasionally capitalize on local scenery, and the Sunset Park address, amid the ruins of a former shipping district that has stunning waterfront views, is hard to beat, said Doug Steiner, the studio’s chairman.

Nicknamed Steiner Sequel, cameras aren’t expected to roll on these soundstages until 2024. After a two-year competitive process, the city awarded Mr. Steiner the 14-acre site under a 99-year lease in October. And Mr. Steiner, who has also made a name for himself as a developer of condos and rentals, is now talking to lenders for the $350 million project. As part of the deal, Steiner must complete the construction of next-door Bush Terminal Park, which now has a few sports fields, and build a playground there.


Image
Doug Steiner high above his 30-soundstage main facility, Steiner Studios, which is at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. It opened in 2004 and has served as a location for shows like &ldquo;Boardwalk Empire&rdquo; and &ldquo;The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel.&rdquo;
Doug Steiner high above his 30-soundstage main facility, Steiner Studios, which is at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. It opened in 2004 and has served as a location for shows like “Boardwalk Empire” and “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel.”Credit...Tom Sibley for The New York Times
As Mr. Steiner sees it, some industries, even white-collar ones, are fading in New York, which means content creation for screens large and small is necessary. “It’s really critical to the future,” he said.

New York’s 1.5 million square feet of soundstages ranks it third in the country, after California, with 5.5 million and Georgia with 1.8 million, according to an October report from CBRE, the commercial real estate firm.

And employment in overall entertainment jobs has increased by 16 percent in New York since 2010, to 358,120, a rise many analysts attribute to soundstage growth, according to CBRE. Soundstage owners report being near full capacity. Steiner Studios’ occupancy level is about 95 percent.

Of course, coronavirus has taken a toll. New York productions were paused from March to mid-July, and soundstages are now operating at only 50 percent capacity under state pandemic rules. But quarantine, at least in the short term, seems to have had some benefits. Video-streaming has surged in popularity, up 74 percent nationally in the past year, CBRE said. And a quarter of all TV-watching involves streams.

Soundstage owners say the industry would be doomed without the hefty public subsidies provided by the state.

ADVERTISEMENT

Continue reading the main story

“Virtually all” of Steiner’s clients, for instance, avail themselves of tax breaks, which allow 30 percent of the cost of a large part of a production to be credited back. It’s the most generous package in the country. California and Louisiana, tied for second, offer 25 percent. “I lose sleep regularly over the thought of what would happen if they were to go away,” Mr. Steiner said.

Season two of HBO’S “The Deuce,” which was partly filmed at Queens’s Silvercup Studios, for example, benefited from a $21 million credit in the third quarter of 2019, according to state figures.

Created in 2004 and set to expire in 2022, the breaks have so far created a tremendous amount of wealth, officials say. Since their introduction, the state has awarded nearly $8 billion in incentives to 2,200 movies and shows, most of which have been shot in the city. Those productions spent $40 billion and hired millions of workers, according to a spokeswoman for Empire State Development agency, and naturally pay some taxes, too.

But echoing the opponents of the deal to bring Amazon to Queens in exchange for $3 billion in breaks, critics call the film incentives a waste of public money because they believe the moviemakers would come to New York anyway.

“Saturday Night Live,” for example, has collected up to $15 million a year, according to the Citizens Budget Commission, a watchdog group, but is unlikely to ever leave its New York base. The comedy show occasionally shoots at Kaufman Astoria Studios.

And with New York already facing a budget hole of billions of dollars, the “film tax credit is a very expensive incentive to provide at a time when New York state is withholding payments to school districts, nonprofits and others,” the group said.

If the method for luring movies is controversial (along with allowing shoots to disrupt streets and sidewalks), the result still seems to offer some benefits for communities.

“If it wasn’t for the studio, I don’t know where we would be today,” said Caroline Bell, a co-owner of Cafe Grumpy, a national chain of coffee shops whose pioneering location, in Greenpoint, is across from a Broadway Stages location.

In the cafe’s first year of business, in 2005, on otherwise sleepy days, large orders of “75 coffee drinks” would pour in from soundstage crews, Ms. Bell said. And actors would occasionally drop in, like Andrew McCarthy, who once popped back behind the bar to help. “That was exciting,” she said.

Similarly, Kingbridge Cleaners and Tailors, based inside the Brooklyn Navy Yard, has dry-cleaned Victorian suits worn by actors in “Boardwalk Empire,” which was filmed at nearby Steiner. Costumes from “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel,” another Steiner production, were also scrubbed, said Richard Aviles, a co-owner of the shop, who said the studio accounted for 20 percent of his business pre-Covid.

“It’s a very cool feeling to see costumes on TV that you’ve cleaned,” Mr. Aviles said. “Sometimes I watch them spill something on a dress, and think, I can’t believe we got that out.”


Image
Silvercup Studios, known for its location in a former bread factory in Queens, also has soundstages in Port Morris, in the Bronx.
Silvercup Studios, known for its location in a former bread factory in Queens, also has soundstages in Port Morris, in the Bronx.Credit...Tom Sibley for The New York Times
The upsides may also be less direct, like in Port Morris, in the Bronx, a rough-edged industrial neighborhood where in 2016 Silvercup opened a 115,000-square-foot soundstage facility in a former lighting warehouse. The towering complex, at Locust Avenue and East 139th Street, sits by a depot for oil trucks and a boarded-up rowhouse.

But some developers believe show-business-related businesses will eventually follow. At 825 East 141st Street, in the shadow of the Bruckner Expressway, a development team that includes the Altmark Group is converting a former baking factory for the A. & P. supermarket chain into offices.

ADVERTISEMENT

Continue reading the main story

The eight-story charcoal-toned building, called Union Crossing, has been slow to lease because of Covid, said Ellen Israel, an agent with JRT Realty Group, which is marketing it. But Ms. Israel envisions companies involved in scenery and lighting as tenants. Asking rents are about $25 per square foot a year.

"Silvercup is a known entity, and if you are doing business with them, you don’t want to be too far away,” she said. “We’re trying to create a vibe.”

In the end, there might be no surer sign of growth potential than the increasing interest from traditional real estate circles.

This fall, Square Mile Capital Management, a New York firm that previously had invested in offices and apartment buildings, and Hackman Capital Partners, a Los Angeles company with office properties, snapped up Silvercup for $369.3 million. And the deal is one of several recently for the team that involves film facilities, including California’s historic Culver Studios.

For its part, Silvercup, whose rooftop sign is visible from Manhattan, has had a string of successes since opening in 1983, including “Sex and the City,” “The Sopranos” and “Succession.”

“I think it’s pretty clear that something is going on with streaming video, perhaps accelerated by the impacts of Covid, but probably because of a change in consumer behavior,” said Craig Solomon, Square Mile’s chief executive.

And additional soundstages may be only part of the calculation. Mr. Solomon would not rule out adding apartments or office buildings at or near Silvercup, which in addition to its main location near the Ed Koch-Queensborough Bridge and its Bronx soundstage, has others in an industrial zone near Calvary Cemetery in Sunnyside.

“It’s natural to want to continue to grow and benefit from the placemaking aspects of these properties,” Mr. Solomon said. “At the end of the day, it’s the business we are in.”