TOKYO—An enduring mystery of the Covid-19 pandemic is why East Asian countries across the board have experienced far fewer cases and deaths than the U.S. and Europe.

Some doctors and scientists are beginning to take a closer look at theories that some people in East Asia and Southeast Asia have had different exposure to previous coronaviruses resembling the SARS-CoV-2 virus sweeping the globe. Such exposure could have protected them from getting sick from Covid-19 or lessened the severity of the disease.

Others doubt that the immune systems of people in the region differ from people in the rest of the world in any systematic way. They suspect cultural factors and, in some countries, government policies such as tightly enforced quarantines are playing the main role.

Whatever the case, doctors agree that some explanation is needed for why Japan, South Korea, China, Vietnam, Taiwan, Malaysia and Singapore all have experienced at most a few thousand new SARS-CoV-2 infections a day, even during the current surge. That compares with tens of thousands of daily cases in many European nations and more than 150,000 new cases on many days in the U.S.

Yasuhiro Suzuki has pondered the question as the highest-ranking doctor in the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare’s medical corps until his retirement in August.

“There’s a theory, and I think it’s quite a strong one, that in East Asia a cold similar to the novel coronavirus spread widely and a large number of people caught it,” Dr. Suzuki said. “As a result of having immunity to a similar virus—although it isn’t bulletproof immunity—they either don’t develop it or don’t get seriously ill if they do,” he said, referring to Covid-19.

He cautioned that there aren’t any solid studies to back up the idea.

Research in Western nations shows some people’s immune systems partly recognize SARS-CoV-2, the new coronavirus, even though they were never exposed to it, apparently because of previous infections by coronaviruses that cause the common cold. There are hints these people do better fending off Covid-19.

A study by scientists at the Francis Crick Institute in London and elsewhere in the U.K. looked at blood samples collected before the Covid-19 pandemic. The study, published in the journal Science, found that about one in 20 adults sampled had antibodies that recognized SARS-CoV-2, and that nearly half of children and adolescents had such antibodies.

Boston University scientists found that patients whose medical records showed confirmed exposure to common-cold viruses had better outcomes when they caught SARS-CoV-2. Among hospitalized patients, the risk of dying fell by some 70%, according to their study in the Journal of Clinical Investigation.

However, researchers haven’t compared populations across regions.


People in East Asian cities such as Seoul continue to commute in packed trains without causing large Covid-19 outbreaks.
PHOTO: CHUNG SUNG-JUN/GETTY IMAGES
What intrigues some is the position of China as the origin not just of the current pandemic, but also of the first SARS epidemic in 2002-03 and earlier influenza epidemics. Those viruses got noticed, but others perhaps weren’t.

Tatsuhiko Kodama, who is studying SARS-CoV-2 antibodies at the University of Tokyo’s Research Center for Advanced Science and Technology, said infections with viruses resembling the new coronavirus have likely repeatedly occurred in East Asia. Dr. Kodama said he was sure that exposure was related to the immune response to SARS-CoV-2.

He said some unpublished initial data collected by his team suggest Japanese Covid-19 patients are producing a targeted antibody called IgG soon after the onset of illness while producing relatively little of another antibody called IgM that typically marks the initial immune response. This implies they have already seen something like SARS-CoV-2, he said.

However, Tetsuya Mizutani, a virologist at the Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, said he found it hard to imagine that earlier viruses would have stayed only in Asia, given China’s links to the world.

“Such viruses would spread around the world just as quickly as SARS-CoV-2 has done,” Prof. Mizutani said. He said cultural practices such as the high level of mask-wearing and hand-washing offered the best explanation for the regional differences in the pandemic’s severity.

Others are going farther back in history. An Australia-U.S. team recently said it found strong signs of selection among Chinese, Japanese and Vietnamese people in genes involved in combating coronaviruses. In a paper published online but not peer-reviewed, they said their analysis suggested East Asians started battling a coronavirus pandemic some 25,000 years ago and might have taken many millennia to conquer it. Another paper on a genetic risk factor for severe Covid-19 that was inherited from Neanderthals found the variant was almost absent in East Asians.

David Enard of the University of Arizona, co-author of the Australia-U.S. paper, said it was too early to know whether the changes his group detected in East Asians offered any help against SARS-CoV-2. “If there is a genetic effect, it will be small to the point of being irrelevant” compared with proven steps such as wearing masks and keeping social distance, he predicted.

Why East Asia Is Beating the West in Controlling Coronavirus

While life in South Korea, China and Japan has broadly returned to normal, the U.S. and Europe face new surges in Covid-19 cases. WSJ explains how countries in East Asia have kept the virus in check without nationwide lockdowns. Photos: Abdulmonam Eassa and Hector Retamal/AFP via Getty
Figuring out regional variation in Covid-19 immunity could come in handy in the next pandemic, Alireza Bolourian and Zahra Mojtahedi wrote in a recent commentary in Archives of Medical Research. If people in China had some pre-existing resistance to SARS-CoV-2, they said, initial data from that country could have led the West to underestimate how easily the virus could spread outside of East Asia.

In the future, they wrote, disease modelers might have to “scale up the severity of flulike epidemics” to account for that factor.

President Trump’s campaign suffered more legal setbacks in his bid to reverse the November election results and filed a new challenge to the outcome in Georgia.

A flurry of court rulings and legal action across six battleground states came Friday as looming federal deadlines could close off Mr. Trump’s ability to further contest President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. Mr. Trump has refused to concede the race, but his legal team has so far been unsuccessful at nearly every turn.

On Friday, a Nevada state court dismissed a Republican-backed lawsuit filed in Carson City that claimed the election was beset by irregularities and fraud. The suit asked the court either to declare Mr. Trump the winner or void the results.

“Contestants did not prove under any standard of proof that any of Nevada’s election officials committed malfeasance,” said the 35-page ruling by Nevada District Court Judge James T. Russell.

Nevada certified election results on Nov. 24, showing Mr. Biden won the state by more than 33,000 votes.

State election officials and federal law-enforcement officials say they have seen no evidence of widespread fraud. Federal officials have called the election the most secure ever conducted.

In Michigan, where official results show Mr. Biden won by about 155,000 votes, an appeals court rejected the Trump campaign’s attempt to stop the counting of absentee ballots, finding its lawsuit to be no longer relevant. In the two weeks Mr. Trump’s legal team took to ready its ”purportedly emergent application,” Michigan had already certified its results.

In Minnesota, where Mr. Biden won the state by more than 230,000 votes, the state supreme court dismissed Friday a GOP-backed lawsuit seeking to delay the certification of the election. The state certified its results Nov. 24.

States must resolve any outstanding challenges to their elections by Tuesday, or they risk having Congress get involved regarding which candidate receives its electoral votes. The Electoral College votes Dec. 14.

With dwindling options available, the Trump team on Friday took to two other battlegrounds: Georgia and Arizona.

Trump lawyers filed an election contest in Georgia state court, saying that tens of thousands of ballots were cast illegally, including by unregistered and underage voters and people convicted of felonies. The complaint, which names as plaintiffs the Trump campaign, a Republican elector and Mr. Trump personally, said these votes were improperly included in tabulations “due to significant systemic misconduct, fraud, and other irregularities.”

Georgia election officials, including Republican Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, have defended the election as secure and fair. A hand recount confirmed Mr. Biden’s victory, though the margin narrowed to 12,284 votes from just over 14,000.

Trump campaign lawyers called for the Republican-controlled legislature in Arizona to overturn the state’s certified results and deliver its Electoral College votes to Mr. Trump.

‘There’s a hard deadline of Dec. 14, and man, I hate to bump up against that.’— Wisconsin Reserve Judge Stephen A. Simanek
“The rule of law forbids us to do that,” Rusty Bowers, GOP speaker of the Arizona House of Representatives, said in a statement Friday, calling it a “breathtaking request.”

In Wisconsin, a lower-court judge set a hearing for late next week to hear the Trump campaign’s claims that state election officials gave illegal advice to voters that resulted in more than 200,000 ineligible mail-in ballots being cast. The Trump campaign asked the Wisconsin Supreme Court to invalidate those votes, which would have been a significant move: Mr. Biden won the state by about 20,000 votes.

But the high court denied the request and said a lower-court should hear the case first. On Friday, the case’s new judge said the proceedings would happen uncomfortably close to the Electoral College meeting.

“There’s a hard deadline of Dec. 14, and man, I hate to bump up against that,” said Wisconsin Reserve Judge Stephen A. Simanek on Friday, adding that if “there are any glitches, we have no recourse.”

The Trump campaign is also contesting the Wisconsin election results in federal court, where a separate hearing was scheduled for next Thursday, attorneys said.

Who should pay to recycle discarded cereal boxes, drinks bottles and detergent containers?

The makers of such products have long fought efforts to make them pay for the cost of dealing with packaging waste. Now, trade groups that represent companies like Procter & Gamble Co. PG 0.09% and PepsiCo Inc. PEP 0.97% are softening that stance, as consumers become more concerned about plastic waste and municipalities struggle to cover the costs of their recycling programs.

Federal and state lawmakers in the U.S. are proposing bills to push companies to pick up the tab for managing empty soda bottles, candy wrappers, cereal boxes and other packaging they use. Such rules could help pay for curbside collection and sorting infrastructure, and spur companies to design packaging that is easier to recycle, lawmakers say.


Charging companies “puts the financial burden of plastic pollution back on the manufacturers who generate it and profit from it,” said Sen. Tom Udall (D., N.M.), who this year introduced a bill that would make companies pay to collect and process waste. Several states including Massachusetts, New York and Washington are considering similar measures.

Where Your Old E-Commerce Boxes End Up
YOU MAY ALSO LIKE

With more people shopping online, there’s a lot more cardboard in the recycling stream these days. Here’s a look at where all those discarded boxes go -- it’s farther than you might think. Photo: Carlos Waters/The Wall Street Journal
Packaging has become more complex of late, often being a mix of materials such as aluminum layered with different plastics to make baby and pet-food pouches. Most recycling facilities can’t handle these. Also, a 2018 ban on waste imports by China, historically the biggest buyer of used plastic from the U.S., created a glut of recyclables with nowhere to go. Ninety two recycling programs have been eliminated in the U.S. since late 2017, according to the Recycling Partnership, a nonprofit.

Covid-19 has exacerbated the problem. Single-use plastic volumes have jumped just as cities and towns face budget shortfalls, and recycling streams are more contaminated as household waste displaces the cleaner material that typically comes from offices and businesses. U.S. residential recycling programs are collecting at least 7% more waste than last year, according to the Solid Waste Association of North America.

Against that backdrop—and the threat of potential bans on some plastic packaging—consumer-goods industry groups say they are more willing to help pay for recycling services that they have long argued were the responsibility of governments.

“We will actively support policy proposals that require industry funding,” said Dan Felton, executive director of Ameripen, a lobby group set up by companies including Coca-Cola Co. KO 2.03% and Colgate-Palmolive Co. CL -0.19% about a decade ago in the face of a mounting wave of legislation aimed at cutting plastic waste.

The Consumer Brands Association also says it would support per-item fees on packaging provided the money is used to improve recycling. The trade body, whose members include P&G, Pepsi and General Mills Inc., had previously questioned the merits of such policies.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
Who should pay for the recycling of consumer goods companies’s packaging waste? Join the conversation below.

“We recognize these systems in America have been chronically underfunded for a decade or more and can’t handle the types of packaging in use today,” said Meghan Stasz, the association’s head of packaging.

Mars Inc. and Unilever PLC are among companies that have said they would support so-called extended producer responsibility rules as part of their broader efforts to reduce plastic waste and use more recycled material in their packaging.

Brand owners have long paid toward the cost of managing their packaging waste in parts of Canada and Europe, and more recently have done so in big emerging markets like India. Companies either pay for packaging recycling programs through umbrella organizations or reimburse municipalities directly. Fees are based on the weight of packaging sold, but also account for the cost of recycling items and the resale value of materials.


In the U.S., manufacturers pay toward waste management for just a handful of items, such as paint, batteries and mattresses.

Advocates say such measures boost recycling rates. In Germany, where companies have had to pay toward managing packaging waste since the early ‘90s, the recycling rate for municipal solid waste stood at 67% in 2018, according to government data. By contrast, the U.S. rate is 25% based on 2017 data—the latest available—from the Environmental Protection Agency.

Scott Cassel heads the Product Stewardship Institute, a nonprofit that lobbies for companies to cover waste-management costs. He says for the first time he has had “very productive discussions” with the flexible-packaging industry about a potential model bill for states.

In June, a House climate-change panel called on Congress to adopt extended producer responsibility among other policies with the aim of making the U.S. carbon-neutral by 2050.


Aluminum waste is prepared for recycling.
PHOTO: DAWN KISH FOR THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
But governments, waste companies and brand owners can’t agree on how much the product makers should pay and how such rules would work in practice.

A proposed bill in Maine that called on companies to help pay for managing packaging waste could have cost brand owners between $14 million and $16 million a year, according to the state’s environment department. The bill failed this year but is expected to be reintroduced in 2021.


The Udall bill, introduced to Congress in February, proposes that companies bear the entire cost of handling their used packaging. It also asks them to design and run programs to collect and process the waste. Mr. Cassel says most states he is advising on the matter want brand owners to pick up the entire tab.

By contrast, the Recycling Partnership, a nonprofit funded by companies including Nestle SA and Target Corp. , argues for shared costs between brand owners and taxpayers. Under its proposal, taxpayers’ contribution would be bolstered by payments from commercial and industrial waste generators.

The Consumer Brands Association also says brand owners shouldn’t be saddled with the entire cost of dealing with their waste.

“We do not want a scenario where any one industry or stakeholder bears all financial or operational responsibility,” said Ms. Stasz. “Everybody has a role to play here.”

The U.S. Justice Department is discussing a deal with Huawei Technologies Co. finance chief Meng Wanzhou that would allow her to return home to China from Canada, in exchange for admitting wrongdoing in a criminal case that has strained Beijing’s relations with the U.S. and Canada, people familiar with the matter said.

Lawyers for Ms. Meng, who faces wire and bank fraud charges related to alleged violations of U.S. sanctions on Iran on Huawei’s behalf, have spoken to Justice Department officials in recent weeks about the possibility of reaching a “deferred prosecution agreement,” the people said.

Under such an agreement, which prosecutors usually use with companies but rarely grant to individuals, Ms. Meng would be required to admit to some of the allegations against her but prosecutors would agree to potentially defer and later drop the charges if she cooperated, the people said.

Ms. Meng has so far resisted the proposed deal, believing she did nothing wrong, some of the people said. She declined to comment through a Huawei spokesman. A Justice Department spokesman declined to comment. A spokeswoman for Canada’s foreign minister also declined to comment.

Arrested two years ago while transferring planes in Vancouver, Ms. Meng has been confined to the city, where she has a home. She has since fought extradition to the U.S.—a process allowing multiple appeals that can take years to resolve—and her situation has personified for many in China attempts by Washington to stymie the country’s global ascent.


An agreement wouldn’t only allow her to return to China, it would also remove an issue that has caused Beijing’s relations with Ottawa to plummet and has added to a downward spiral in ties with Washington. A deal could also pave the way for China to return two Canadian men who were detained there soon after Ms. Meng’s arrest, a factor that is in part motivating the discussions, the people said.

The Trump administration sees Huawei as a national-security threat and says that Ms. Meng’s activities on behalf of Huawei’s work in Iran are part of a pattern of corporate wrongdoing. The U.S. actions have enraged Beijing, which accuses Washington of discriminating against Huawei and has called on Canada to release Ms. Meng.

Negotiators for Ms. Meng and the Justice Department are speaking again this week in hopes of reaching agreement before the end of President Trump’s administration, some of the people said. Huawei officials are also holding out hope that President-elect Joe Biden’s administration might be more lenient, some of the people said. A spokesman for Mr. Biden didn’t respond to a request for comment.

Ms. Meng’s lawyers and Justice Department officials are working to determine whether there are terms that both sides can agree to, two of the people said. Ms. Meng recently declined to approve a draft agreement because she didn’t agree with the way her communications with some of Huawei’s financial institutions were described, one person said.

Ms. Meng is the daughter of Ren Zhengfei, the founder of Huawei, one of China’s leading companies and a global pacesetter in telecommunications gear that the U.S. has alleged engages in technology theft and may abet espionage by Beijing. The company has denied those allegations.

Ms. Meng has argued that she has been wrongly accused and that the extradition request is improperly based on political motivations at a time when the U.S. was seeking the upper hand in prolonged trade and technology tensions with China.

At a regular press briefing on Friday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying didn’t directly address the possibility of talks involving the Justice Department but urged the U.S. to drop its extradition request and called on Canada to allow Ms. Meng to return to China.

The case against Ms. Meng is centered on allegations that she lied to Huawei’s banks during a presentation in 2013 about the Chinese company’s business ties to Iran. The financial institutions subsequently cleared hundreds of millions dollars in transactions that potentially violated U.S. sanctions against Iran.

Lawyers for Ms. Meng told the Canadian court in June that the U.S. made “reckless misstatements” by excluding a portion of her bank presentation that they said cited Huawei’s business in Iran.

In May, a British Columbia judge ruled the U.S. had met a key test to extradite her, but additional hearings are expected to continue later this month and through next year. She is currently on bail and must wear an ankle monitor.

Her arrest touched off a major diplomatic standoff, during which two Canadians, including a diplomat on leave from his post, were detained and charged earlier this year with espionage.

Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said in June that the detentions of Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor were unacceptable and “deeply concerning not just to Canadians but to people around the world who see China using arbitrary detentions as a means to political ends.”

Mr. Spavor’s family hasn’t spoken publicly about his arrest, and Mr. Kovrig’s wife has said he is innocent.

In recent weeks, China’s Communist Party-run Global Times has specifically identified Ms. Meng’s case as an area on which Beijing hoped to see a shift in posture from the incoming Biden administration.

A former Justice Department national-security official, David Laufman, said that the case was a flagship prosecution and while prosecutors may be weighing geopolitical interests, he doesn’t expect a Biden Justice Department to drop the case.

“It would be exceptional for the Justice Department to forgo a criminal conviction. But there are times when law-enforcement interests reasonably give way to overarching foreign-policy interests of the United States,” said Mr. Laufman, who is now in private practice at the law firm Wiggin and Dana LLP, referring to the Trump administration negotiations. “Given the impact of the Meng prosecution on Canada as well as on U. S-Chinese relations, this may be one of those cases.”

While a deal to effectively free Ms. Meng would likely help ease tensions among the governments, the episode has contributed to a downward trajectory in Canadian views of China, according to public-opinion surveys, in large part because of the detention of the two Canadian men.

“There are times when law-enforcement interests reasonably give way to overarching foreign-policy interests of the United States.”— David Laufman, former Justice Department national-security official
China has vociferously denied any direct links between the arrest of Ms. Meng and those of Messrs. Kovrig and Spavor, which occurred within hours of each other in two Chinese cities, nine days after Ms. Meng’s arrest. Chinese diplomats have suggested, however, that resolving Ms. Meng’s case would help in securing the two Canadians’ freedom.

The negotiations to free Ms. Meng with conditions began months before the November presidential election, though they have taken on more urgency in recent weeks as the end of the Trump administration approaches.

The Justice Department’s pursuit of Huawei is part of a broader Trump administration effort against the technology firm. The U.S. has said Huawei could be coerced by Beijing into using its equipment to spy on, or disrupt, foreign networks, which the company has denied.

Prosecutors unsealed new charges earlier this year accusing the company and two of its U.S. subsidiaries of racketeering conspiracy and conspiring to steal trade secrets. U.S. sanctions have limited the company’s ability to obtain crucial chip supplies and encouraged other countries to shun its gear for new 5G mobile communications networking equipment.

On Wednesday, the top U.S. counterintelligence official, William Evanina, said at the Aspen Cyber Summit that the indictment against Huawei had been particularly helpful in persuading European allies to heed U.S. concerns about the technology giant.

Two months into the current cycle for college financial aid applications, the number of high-school seniors who have submitted the forms is down sharply—and shows no sign of catching up to year-ago levels.

The steep decline worries university officials as the Covid-19 pandemic has pushed college from a likely next step after high school to a more distant dream for many students.

Through Nov. 27, submissions of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, or Fafsa, were down nearly 17% from the year-ago period, according to a National College Attainment Network analysis of Education Department data released Friday.


Financial Aid Falloff
Estimated cumulative percentage of U.S. highschool-seniors who submitted the Fafsa formfor college aid.
Source: National College Attainment Networkanalysis of Education Department data
Note: Dates are approximate for 2019-20 and 2020-21 cycles

“To still see double-digit percent decreases from last year is alarming to me,” said Bill DeBaun, director of data and evaluation at NCAN, a nonprofit aimed at closing equity gaps in higher education.

Just under one quarter of the country’s nearly 3.8 million high-school seniors have filled out the Fafsa, compared with 29% who applied by this time last year, according to NCAN’s estimates.

The Fafsa form opens a spigot of federal, state and institutional loans and grants. Students can still submit their forms after applying to college, so there is a chance the numbers will recover as the admissions season advances. But college counselors and some people running aid programs are doubtful.

With many parents out of work, high-school classes held online and a public health crisis bearing down across the country, students’ priorities and aspirations may have shifted.

Mr. DeBaun said that in the hierarchy of needs for many high-school students right now, basics like food, shelter and an internet connection to attend classes rank far above crafting a list of target colleges and figuring out how to pay for them. “Those things are luxuries for a lot of families right now,” he said.


Submissions of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, or Fafsa, form for college tuition assistance have declined markedly.
PHOTO: AP
Submitted Fafsa forms are down by 20% at high schools with large populations of low-income students as measured by the federal Title 1 program, compared with 14% for those not eligible, NCAN figures show. They are down by about 22% at high-minority high schools, versus 12% at schools without many students of color. And rural and small-town schools are reporting drops of more than 21%.

Virtual instruction and social distancing have made all but impossible the traditional interventions school officials use to motivate prospective college applicants, such as in-person information sessions, plying students with free pizza to attend an event or cornering someone in the hallway to nag about an incomplete form.

College counselors and others are scrambling to find alternatives, including virtual workshops, text message campaigns and even setting up tents outside closed high schools, but so far they have had mixed success.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
How can high-school seniors be encouraged to apply to college as well as seek financial aid during a pandemic? Join the conversation below.

“If a student doesn’t want to answer a call or show up for a Zoom class, they just don’t have to. It is so easy to disengage,” said Jeremy Raff, the coordinator of college and career services for the school district in Lancaster, Pa.

In the past few years, just under half of the low-income district’s 700 seniors completed Fafsa forms.

In October this year, district staff—including counselors, hall monitors and secretaries—called every senior, reciting English and Spanish scripts urging them to sign up for appointments during a modified, socially distant version of its Fafsa workshop.

Just over 70 made appointments; 50 showed up. Half of those completed the Fafsa, while the others at least made headway.

“It was definitely a big lift,” Mr. Raff said, adding that he considered the event a success.


Schools are trying new ways to get seniors interested in college, including a virtual visit to Carleton College last month at a Fort Collins, Colo., high school.
PHOTO: DIANE CAMPBELL
Schools in Broward County, Fla., are running virtual workshops in English, Spanish and Haitian Creole, taking families step by step through the forms online. Last year, 45% of the district’s roughly 16,000 seniors completed the Fafsa, and Broward estimated those who didn’t left $16 million in possible Pell Grant funds on the table.

So far this cycle, the Broward district is 6% below last year’s completion rates.

The district is coordinating more activities to lighten the load for school-based counselors, who are in triage mode helping students with online learning.

Four parent sessions in October drew a total of 2,100 participants; now the district is focusing on more individual outreach, particularly to low-income students with high grades or test scores, said Ralph Aiello, Broward’s director of school counseling.

The district is also in talks to train staffers at 2-1-1 Broward, a phone hotline that connects people to services like housing and senior care, so they can run a 24-hour Fafsa hotline.


Six states—West Virginia, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alaska, Montana and Arkansas—are reporting application completion rates more than 25% below last year’s level; no states are ahead of last year’s tally as of now. About one Alaska senior out of every 10 has submitted a Fafsa form, while in Mississippi and California it is about one in five.

“College-going conversations aren’t the same in the middle of a pandemic,” said Mike Krause, executive director of the Tennessee Higher Education Commission.

The state pushed back the deadline for its popular Tennessee Promise grant by three weeks, to Dec. 1, to accommodate students whose priorities may be focused elsewhere. That application, with just 10 questions, is simpler than the Fafsa.

Mr. Krause said he realized the scope of the challenge after visiting a rural technical college recently. Half the students were in the classroom, the other half were under quarantine so they attended remotely. Just three could do so from home, while the others were sitting in cars in parking lots around town to access Wi-Fi.

“I found that a very sobering moment,” Mr. Krause said, calling the lack of internet access “acutely serious” for many Tennesseans. “That’s the student we’ve got to reach.”

When Camille Martin-Thomsen started shopping for her engagement ring with her then-fiancé, she found the process wasn’t as straightforward as she had hoped. The couple, who split their time between Brooklyn and Copenhagen, looked at rings from luxury jewelry houses in both the U.S. and Denmark. Craft was important to Martin-Thomsen, 45, an architect and assistant dean and professor, as were the ethics behind the ring. “I was really frustrated with how vague people sometimes were about their procurement process with diamonds,” she says. “I just couldn’t live with knowing that for me to have beautiful objects, I was going to potentially be harming other people or harming the earth.”


Frank Darling’s Oval Clutch ring, shown with a two-carat diamond and paired with the half-carat eternity band, $1,090 (setting only), frankdarling.com
PHOTO: FRANK DARLING
They started researching lab-created diamonds, learning man-made diamonds are chemically identical to those that are mined from the earth. Both have the same carbon chemistry and crystal structure. (They also get assigned the same grades as mined diamonds for carat, cut, clarity and color.) When Martin-Thomsen and her now-husband saw the prices for lab-grown diamonds were significantly lower than mined diamonds, the choice became a no-brainer. Settings at New York City-based Frank Darling start at $690, and non-custom rings start at $1,490 for a half-carat baguette solitaire and go up to $10,370. (Cartier’s Solitaire 1895 engagement ring is available with a mined diamond in different carats and clarities; a yellow gold version with a 0.52 carat and VS1 clarity diamond costs $6,050, for example.) She loved the settings offered from Frank Darling so much, the couple ended up buying two engagement rings from the company.

Recently, a new crop of primarily online, direct-to-consumer jewelry brands offering engagement rings with lab-grown diamonds has emerged, challenging the traditional notion that the most treasured pieces of jewelry should have stones that come from the earth. Some also use recycled diamonds, which can refer to both antique stones themselves, as well as those that are recut into a modern shape. Unlike lab-grown diamonds, recycled stones usually cost the same as their mined counterparts, but jewelry makers and their customers like them because of their smaller environmental footprint. In addition to Frank Darling, brands in the market include New York-based C1V1L, Ceremony in Los Angeles and London-based Kimaï, which counts Meghan Markle as a fan. Private equity firms like Huron Capital, which invested in WD Lsab Grown Diamonds in Washington D.C, are betting on the trend. And celebrities are too: Leonardo DiCaprio invested in San Francisco-based Diamond Foundry when the company raised over $100 million in 2015.


The lab-grown process uses a tiny diamond, called a diamond seed (which is sometimes from a mined diamond and sometimes from a lab-grown one), and one of two techniques to form a new diamond. The two processes used to create them—either high pressure-high temperature or chemical vapor deposition—replicate the conditions that create diamonds underground, but at a much faster rate. (Natural diamonds are considered a finite resource because of the limited supply close enough to the earth’s surface to access.) Growing a one-carat diamond takes seven to ten days, while a three-carat diamond requires about a month. After, they’re cut into traditional shapes such as cushion, oval and round.

To address ethical concerns that mined diamonds can finance violence by rebel movements, most mining companies certify their diamonds with the Kimberley Process, which came from a United Nations General Assembly resolution in 2000 to create an international standard for rough diamonds to ensure they’re conflict-free. Critics of the certification say by only focusing on conflict diamonds, it skirts other forms of worker exploitation, including child labor and fair pay, and that its tracking stops after a stone is cut and polished. Some jewelry companies implement their own standards in addition to the Kimberley Process, like the De Beers Group, which created their own best practice principles. Those sets of standards include additional human rights and labor regulations, as well as using their own tracking programs to oversee their diamonds until they reach their stores.


A custom C1V1L engagement ring called The Wellspring, featuring a four-carat diamond, price upon request, civiljewelry.com
PHOTO: C1V1L
Blakely Thornton, 34, launched his jewelry company C1V1L in 2019 with a signature design for everyday wear—necklaces and cuffs made from gold and silver mesh. Wanting to expand into engagement rings and other custom fine-jewelry pieces, he ended up partnering with a lab-grown diamond supplier. “Once customers understand that lab-grown is not cubic zirconia... I look at lab-grown as the Tesla of luxury jewelry,” says Thornton. “People who might buy a Mercedes are thinking, I don’t want to have a V12 engine that’s going to make [life] worse for my children.”

Understanding the exact environmental impact of lab-grown versus natural diamonds isn’t entirely clear. A BBC Future Planet report from earlier this year tried to assess whether lab-grown processes are cleaner than mining without arriving at a definitive conclusion, citing a lack of transparency that makes it hard to get accurate data on the carbon footprint of each. A 2014 analysis by the consulting firm Frost & Sullivan, for example, found that mined diamonds require more than twice as much energy as those grown in a lab, which is still a significant amount of energy.


Ceremony’s Anise ring, featuring a half-carat recycled diamond, $3,800, ceremony.us
PHOTO: CEREMONY
The murkiness is part of the reason why Jess Hannah, 29, and Chelsea Nicholson, 31, created their ring company, Ceremony, that uses only recycled diamonds and gold. (The founders don’t actually use the word “engagement ring” because they think it’s an outdated concept for some of their customers.) Ceremony’s clean, modern designs—many of which are designed to be unisex—echo those of the fine jewelry (and nail polish) line, J. Hannah, that co-founder Hannah is best-known for. “[Each diamond we use] is already in the supply chain,” says Nicholson. “And so that is something that we feel we have control over.”

Beginning in the 1930s, the diamond company De Beers launched a marketing campaign that would make diamonds synonymous with engagement rings: giving diamonds to movie stars for their proposals, placing them in society publications and even bringing lecturers to high schools to talk about diamonds. In the 1940s, it launched its now-famous “A Diamond Is Forever” campaign. The company has invested in lab-grown diamond technology, primarily because it wants to designate lab-grown diamonds as a component of casual jewelry, everyday pieces that aren’t necessarily thought of as an investment. Its production group, Element Six, has focused on lab-grown diamonds since the late 1950s, and a consumer-facing company, Lightbox Jewelry, was launched in 2018 and sells pieces with blue and pink lab-grown diamonds in addition to white. Speaking about why De Beers started Lightbox, the group’s executive vice-president of consumer and brands Stephen Lussier says the group was concerned that marketing for lab-grown diamonds wasn’t differentiating them enough from their mined counterparts.


The Ally ring from Kimaï’s non-engagement offerings; the brand is launching engagement rings later this year. $875, kimai.com
PHOTO: KIMAÏ
Jessica Warch, 27, and Sidney Neuhaus, also 27, grew up in families in Antwerp’s diamond industry. In 2018, they launched their own lab-grown diamond company, Kimaï, with fashion jewelry: ear cuffs, initial necklaces and ear climbers, one of which Meghan Markle wore last year. Increasingly, though, customers were coming to them for bespoke engagement rings, and now they’re working on their own collection. “Our generation cares more and more about where the things we are buying come from,” the co-founders wrote in an email. “They want traceability, they want sustainable packaging and they want to know that the people involved in making their jewelry are being paid and worked fairly.”

Some younger buyers don’t want all the preciousness that’s usually involved with buying an engagement ring; they find it intimidating and impersonal. The website of Frank Darling, the brand where architect Martin-Thomsen found her ring, is branded with playful art and blue font and makes ring shopping less of a momentous event. Customers scroll through their setting choices, select a material—either 18K yellow, white or rose gold, or platinum—their ring size and whether they’d like lab-grown or recycled diamonds. If they choose to buy one of the setting-only rings, they can then search through the company’s diamond database to see stone options. Customers are also able to opt for a customized ring, as well as to start with a home try-on kit that includes four styles of replica rings. “It’s a category most people have never shopped before, and walking into a jewelry store is intimidating,” says co-founder and CEO Kegan Fisher, 34, who launched the company with her husband Jeff Smith, 38, in 2019. “In your home, where it’s comfortable, nobody’s looking at you and you can take as many photos as you want. It’s low pressure.”

And for millennials, notorious for prioritizing experiences over things, the price tag might be the biggest selling point of all. Fisher says, “You could spend twice as much money for the benefit of [the diamond] being dug out of the ground, or you could not do that and you could go on a nicer honeymoon.”

Corrections & Amplifications
Jessica Warch and Sidney Neuhaus are both 27 and the company they founded, Kimaï, is based in London, with manufacturing taking place in Antwerp. An earlier version of this article incorrectly said they were 26 and Kimaï was based in Antwerp. Additionally, the story has been updated to include more in-depth descriptions of conflict-free diamonds, the De Beers Group’s standards and Cartier’s offerings. (Corrected and updated on September 25, 2020.)

When Ric Bucher, a television and radio basketball commentator and writer who is a familiar face on Fox Sports, finished a roughly $40,000 office remodel in his Half Moon Bay, Calif., home, he wondered if it was worth it. His workspace, completed about three years ago, was soundproofed, professionally wired, attractively lit, and rigged with professional-grade cameras and microphones. The idea was that if he ever needed to record a podcast or tape a television segment from home, he could.

“It was a very expensive proposition, and we asked, ‘are we doing the right thing?’ ” Mr. Bucher, 59, said of conversations with his wife, Corrine Bucher. Then the pandemic hit. Now Mr. Bucher is able to tape and record studio-quality segments for national Fox Sports shows and for his podcast. “There is no question that it has been a huge benefit to my career,” he said.

A Home Office Renovation Pays Off



Ric Bucher's office upgrade has allowed him to do broadcast-quality video feeds from home throughout the pandemic.PHOTOS: ALANNA HALE FOR THE WALL STREET JOURNAL(3)
Mr. Bucher’s renovation, with its focus on making him look and sound good on camera, may have once seemed specific to his unique profession. But today, developers and home builders believe that the future, even after the virus is under control, will involve a lot more work from home, videoconferencing, and remote collaborating.

To accommodate this new landscape, they are crossing out blueprints that allocated space to movie theaters, game rooms, or lounges, and are using the square footage for co-working spaces, Zoom-call rooms, podcast recording areas and TikTok studios. They are wiring garden areas and pool decks with commercial-grade Wi-Fi and USB ports, and designing in-home offices with separate entrances, soundproofing and souped-up air filtration.


Mr. Bucher and his wife, Corrine Bucher, son Mat and daughter Chance at their home.
PHOTO: ALANNA HALE FOR THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
And while some city denizens are abandoning multiunit living for the moment, developers are betting that those who remain, and those who return, will be attracted to a package of work-from-home amenities.

In downtown Los Angeles, developer Behzad Souferian’s company bought a 606-unit rental building a year ago and rebranded it as the flagship of his new BeDTLA brand.

Live From Half Moon Bay
YOU MAY ALSO LIKE

UP NEXT

Ric Bucher, a basketball commentator and writer, set up a professional, soundproofed space in his home to record podcasts and tape television segments remotely. VIDEO: CORRINE BUCHER
Mr. Souferian’s building is 95% occupied, with rents ranging from about $1,800 to $3,500 a month, he said. But he is rebranding it to reflect what he believes are the needs of this generation of renters. By the end of the year, he will launch a TikTok Studio, a roughly 100-square-foot room with camera-ready lighting, tripod stand and mirrors. The small space will be ideal for one or two people to entertain themselves making TikToks—all the more important “now that bars and nightlife are closed,” Mr. Souferian said.

The building will also have two podcast studios. A space that was a social lounge will be converted into five to 10 work stations where people can be socially distanced from others, he said. There will be no additional charge to use the work-from-home amenities, he said.

“It’s not that we have so many podcasters and influencers in our community now, but we want to create the facilities for these people” to attract them, Mr. Souferian said.


The podcast studios at BeDTLA, Los Angeles.
PHOTO: MARC SZABO STUDIOS/THE SOUFERIAN (RENDERING)
As the pandemic has developed, many building amenities have been closed—sometimes by state or municipal order, and sometimes by building managers themselves. Real-estate companies said that they will comply with regulations and follow the science to determine when common spaces can open or what kind of mitigation—such as limiting capacity—is wise.

Co-working space, a concept devised in a pre-Covid world, may sound ill-suited to today’s environment. Developers said that while the virus is in full force, distancing, plastic dividers and other mitigation can be deployed to make it safe.

In August, Kassie Meiler, 25, moved into the Society Las Olas building in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., which opened in May. The founder of a social-media agency, she calculated that $1,895 a month for a junior one-bedroom was a good deal because she would not have to spend up to $350 renting an office in a co-working building.


Kassie Meiler in the co-working lounge of Society Las Olas in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. She moved to the building for its wide array of work spaces which she thought would save her money she otherwise would have spent on an office rental elsewhere in the city.
PHOTO: ALEXIA FODERE FOR THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

A lounge at Las Olas.
PHOTO: ALEXIA FODERE FOR THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
How have you changed your home to adapt to the pandemic?

In Las Olas, Ms. Meiler leaves her unit each day to use a conference room for hours of Zoom calls, she said. So far, nothing has been too crowded and she can always find space. She then ascends to the building’s Sky Lawn, which is a 3,000-square-foot outdoor office with desks and electrical hookups on the 26th floor.

“If I’m in my unit, I will cook, do laundry and clean. I like the feeling of working with other people I can see as well,” Ms. Meiler said.

Developer Ryan Shear, managing partner at Property Markets Group, said work space is a central offering of the Society Living brand, which currently has two more buildings under development in Miami and one in Orlando. One of the buildings in downtown Miami will have 30 offices and “social stairs”: large steps with electrical outlets and ports where workers can hang out with their laptops, Mr. Shear said.


Society Las Olas, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
PHOTO: ALEXIA FODERE FOR THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

A large co-working space at Las Olas.
PHOTO: ALEXIA FODERE FOR THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
“We’re trying to accommodate all types of workers, from more sociable workers to the closed-door office worker,” he said.

Before Covid, PMG based the brand on the idea of offering people like Ms. Meiler a way to save money on renting a separate office space, Mr. Shear said. When the crisis hit, building staff began wearing masks and regulating capacity in common areas. Since its launch in May, rents at Society Las Olas have been strong, Mr. Shear said.

In a neighborhood near downtown Los Angeles, Alex Valente, High Street Residential senior vice president, is currently working on construction of Llewellyn, a 318-unit rental building. It will have a co-working space tailored to the creative and professional community that Mr. Valente expects will rent in the building. There will be a 600-square foot, soundproof “jam room,” where residents can record podcasts or practice music. It will be located next to a 1,700-square-foot area dubbed the Co-Lab, which will include acoustically isolated booths for group work and a conference room with a technologically enhanced white board.

The Co-Lab can open only when permitted by city ordinances. “We would likely open Co-Lab, assuming restrictions eased, at reduced capacity, on a first-come, first-served basis, and by reservation only on conference rooms initially,” Mr. Valente said.


An optional home office at a KB Home at the Flatiron Meadows community in Erie, Colo.
PHOTO: KB HOME
Michael Pestronk, chief executive of Post Brothers, a developer of rental buildings in Philadelphia, said that once the pandemic hit, he eliminated movie theaters, game rooms and social-lounging areas to create 3,000 square feet and 10,000 square feet of co-working space, respectively, in two buildings under construction. The first will be completed next month and the second in December of next year, he said.

There will be cubicles with high dividers—to create social distancing—where people can work on laptops, plus multiple rooms where residents can host Zoom calls and meetings. In a large downtown project in the design phase, there will be 15,000 square feet of workspace divided into three areas. On the ground floor, there will be conference rooms where residents can meet with outside visitors. On upper floors, there will be a co-working space, and another space with individual offices.

“It gives you space that is more customizable,” Mr. Pestronk said. If that project is approved, it would open in early 2024, he said.

Several developers have created programs that let off-plan buyers customize their floor plans to add home offices. In August, KB Home, a Los Angeles-based builder of roughly 12,000 single-family homes a year, rolled out a program in which buyers can opt to turn a bedroom into a home office. Starting at $3,000, KB creates a built-in desk, shelves, cabinets, high-speed Wi-Fi, various USB ports and lighting over the desk. For additional fees, buyers can add a sliding-glass door to the outside, an en-suite bathroom and soundproofing, said Chief Executive Jeffrey Mezger.


A home office at Villa Valencia, Coral Gables, Fla.
PHOTO: LOCATION VENTURES (RENDERING)
Rob and Mary Porges, both mortgage executives in their 60s, went into contract for a $1.68 million, three-bedroom in Villa Valencia, a 39-unit condo building under construction in Coral Gables, Fla. The developer is building the couple an office off the master bedroom in a space that would otherwise have been a large closet, Ms. Porges said. The office will come with pocket doors, two built-in desks, custom millwork and wiring for internet.

For client meetings, the couple plans to use the building’s boardroom, which will feature Bluetooth speakers, a high-definition video-conferencing camera, a high-definition large screen and audio equipment, said developer Rishi Kapoor, chief executive of Location Ventures.

Units at Villa Valencia cost between $1.65 million and $14.9 million, and each buyer has the opportunity to customize a home office, Mr. Kapoor said. The building also includes high-level water and air filtration, which for an additional cost can be upgraded to medical-grade quality, he said.

The luxury Manhattan market has long been predicated on the understanding that city executives would pay huge prices to live close to their offices. But even a new development there is banking on a work-from-home future.


A flex room being used as an office at Rose Hill, NYC
PHOTO: RECENT SPACES (RENDERING)
Rose Hill, a 45-story building on 29th Street between Park and Madison avenues where studios start at $1.385 million and penthouses top out at $19.5 million, offers some buyers in-unit “flex rooms” that can be designed as home offices, said Shaun Osher, chief executive at CORE, which is the building’s exclusive sales agent.

The space for these rooms came by lowering the bathroom count. “Luxury apartments have been over-bathroomed,” Mr. Osher said. The building will wire various common spaces—a library, dining/conference room, lounge, co-working area and garden, so residents can work on laptops.

Sales began in late 2019; Mr. Osher declined to say what percentage of the units were sold. “I think this pandemic has magnified things people wanted anyway,” said Mr. Osher.

The Look-, Sound- and Feel-Good Home Office
Space10 Interiors in Half Moon Bay, Calif., designed the Buchers’ home office. Here are co-owner Jennifer Glynn’s best tips for creating an office for today’s work-from-home life. Prices are approximate.


PHOTO: ALANNA HALE FOR THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
1. Install low-tech soundproofing.

“Buy a wool rug with extra-thick padding to put under it. Install a solid-core door. Hang heavy drapes—even if you never pull them closed,” says Ms. Glynn.

Wall-to-wall carpet by Stark Carpet, plus installation: $2,500
Solid core double doors: $750
Window shades: $2,500


PHOTO: ALANNA HALE FOR THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
2. Use flattering lighting for video.

“Ric has two lights on stands that sit in the corner ready when he needs them,” which he uses to eliminate shadows on his face during broadcasts, Ms. Glynn says. These, and dimmable ring lights that light the face from all angles, are available from companies specializing in this issue.

Lumecube’s broadcast lighting kit: $129


PHOTO: ALANNA HALE FOR THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
3. Create a backdrop.

The door to Mr. Bucher’s office is painted the same dark blue color as the rest of the walls. This dark tone absorbs bright afternoon light, says Ms. Glynn, and offers a flattering backdrop on video.

Hague Blue by Farrow & Ball Paint in Estate Emulsion: $110 per gallon


PHOTO: ALANNA HALE FOR THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
4. Alert the family.

Outside Mr. Bucher’s office door is an “On Air” sign he can activate by remote control, signaling to the family the need for quiet. This could be handy for any family juggling Zooms and important calls needing quiet.

On Air Light: $350


A variety of working and lounging options keeps cabin fever at bay.
PHOTO: ALANNA HALE FOR THE WALL STREET JOURNAL (3)
5. Design for the long haul.

Mr. Bucher moves around throughout the day between a stool at his built-in desk, a leather loveseat, and built-in bench under the windows. With people spending long hours in home offices, a variety of work spaces helps combat cabin fever, Ms. Glynn said.

Custom loveseat by Space10 Interiors: $4,500
Custom stool: $1,500
Custom window box cushions: $1,500

WASHINGTON—U.S. exports and imports both rose for a fifth straight month in October, reflecting a continued recovery in global commerce driven by a strong economic rebound in China.

Exports from the U.S. rose 2.2% to $182.0 billion from the previous month, while imports rose 2.1% to $245.1 billion, the Commerce Department said Friday. The trade deficit widened to $63.1 billion from $62.1 billion. The figures were adjusted for seasonal variations.

Export Lag
Exports are down 16% year-over-year throughOctober, while imports declined 12%.
U.S. monthly trade in goods and services
Source: Census Bureau
Note: Seasonally adjusted
.billion

Global trade has recovered more quickly than economists expected since widespread lockdowns were imposed in March and April, but activity remains well below pre-pandemic levels. Economists say the outlook for trade remains uncertain amid a resurgence of the virus and renewed lockdowns in the U.S. and Europe.

“Virus transmissions remain elevated, and widening restrictions on activity, at home and abroad, have the potential to disrupt supply chains and weigh on demand,” Rubeela Farooqi, chief U.S. economist for High Frequency Economics said in a research note.

Compared with a year earlier, U.S. exports in October were down 13.5%, while imports fell 3.3%. The deficit increased 47% year-over-year.

China Export Surge
Through October, exports to China were 10% above the same period in 2019.
U.S. exports to China, 12-month rolling sum
Source: Census Bureau
Note: Not seasonally adjusted

THE U.S. ECONOMY
U.S. Added 245,000 Jobs Last Month as Hiring Slowed December 4, 2020
Fed’s Evans Isn’t Ready for More Fed Stimulus December 4, 2020
Kudlow Calls for Extension of Enhanced U.S. Jobless Benefits December 4, 2020
Jobless Claims Fall After Recent Upticks December 3, 2020
A rapid recovery in China, which reported a 4.9% expansion in its economy in the third quarter from a year earlier, is helping drive global commerce. The International Monetary Fund projects China will be the only major world economy to grow this year.

U.S. goods exports to China rose to a record $14.72 billion in October from $11.54 billion in September, without adjusting for seasonal variations. Imports from China rose to $44.83 billion from $41.21 billion, hitting the highest level since December 2018.

Adjusted for seasonal fluctuations, however, exports of goods to China rose 9.3% to $13.14 billion in October, while imports expanded 9.1% to $39.68 billion. That left the trade deficit 9% wider at $26.55 billion.

As part of the “Phase One” trade deal signed in January, Beijing committed to buying an additional $200 billion of American-made goods and services over 2020 and 2012. Due in part to the pandemic-induced slowdown, China has remained behind the pace to reach the goal, said Chad Bown, a senior fellow at Peterson Institute for International Economics

“Despite the good news about the additional U.S. exports in October, China’s purchases remain only at 57% of their year-to-date targets set out under President Trump’s Phase One agreement.” he said. ”To meet the annual target, China would need to buy more than half of the goods it promised for all of 2020 in November and December alone.”

In the 10 months through October, China-bound exports of goods rose to $95.82 billion, from $87.44 billion in the same period last year. Imports fell to $348.72 billion, from $381.55 billion a year earlier. Exports of services to China have remained depressed due to sharp drops in tourism and education spending.

In October, U.S. imports of consumer goods, including cellphones, rose to $57.19 billion from $55.78 billion in September, reflecting a recovery in domestic demand.

Meanwhile, imports of capital goods—a proxy for domestic investments by companies—rose to $56.88 billion in October from $55.51 billion in September, led by higher purchases of computer accessories and industrial machinery. Automotive imports rose to $32.20 billion from $31.19 billion a month earlier as consumers took advantage of low interest rates to buy cars.

Year-to-date through October, U.S. exports overall were down 16.4% compared with the same period last year, while Imports were down 11.5%. As imports have recovered more quickly than exports, the overall deficit in goods and services has widened by 9.5% to $536.69 billion.